Rahim and Akim are friends, both originally from Algeria.  Rahim is a network engineer and Akim drives a yellow taxi cab.  They talk about how coming to the mosque is for prayers but is also a good opportunity to see and catch up with friends.  They conduct daily prayers wherever is convenient; at the different mosques throughout Astoria, or when a mosque is not possible, wherever they happen to be.  Rahim mentions he has lived in many different parts of the world; usually itÕs Òthe same people and same way of lifeÓ.  He also talks about the way in which after an incident like 9/11 blame is targeted at the whole Muslim population Ð whereas when people of other religious beliefs are involved it is the individual, not the religion as a whole, which is blamed.  ÒThereÕs bad and good everywhereÉYou canÕt generalize.Ó  Context of interview: Ò30th Ave Ð A year in the life of a streetÓ project (www.30thAve.org). Transcript notes for research  Rahim [R]: My name is Rahim.  IÕve been here about 10 years.   I am a network engineer.  Akim [A]: My name is Akim and IÕve lived here almost 22 years here in Astoria.    R: We both are originally from Algeria.  I come to the mosque when I have a chance.  ThereÕs no counting, you know.  From what I know this mosque has been here a long time Ð at least before I arrived here.   You come here and do prayers and go home, nothing special.  You just do the pillar.  ItÕs part of life.  And you meet friends, sometimes you see people you donÕt see otherwise during the day.  ItÕs both things Ð you do prayer and you get to meet your friends.   A: A mosque is a mosque, itÕs a house of God right, so we come here to do the five times praying a day.  And like my friend says, itÕs whenever you have a chance.  It doesnÕt have to be this particular mosque, we have like five or six of them around here.  So if you caught, you know if youÕre stuck in Steinway Street we have to pray there, we donÕt come here.  If I lose the timing then I pray wherever, in the house.   R: Prayer is not linked to a mosque.  You can do it anywhere, in a park, in a house, restaurant, wherever you are.    A: But the group mosque is important.  Praying in a group at a mosque, the rewards is much more better, bigger than doing it by yourself.  Doing it by yourself you get one point.  Doing it in the mosque you get 27 points.  YouÕre collecting more goods.  The more you collect goods the more you will be saved at the end of this life, at judgment day.  ThatÕs how I believe, you know.   I drive a taxi.  Yellow cab.  No [donÕt enjoy it].  But I do it.  ItÕs a living you know.   R: A job is a job.  There are people from everywhere.  From Asia, Africa, Europe.  A: All the continents.  And different cultures.  You come you do what you do and thatÕs it.  Sometimes they offer food here, some exotic food, and you go for it, otherwise you leave.   Fridays is like Christian Sunday.  And youÕd see more people coming here on Friday.    R: Re. Sep 11th: ThereÕs bad and good all over.  If you look at McVeigh in Oklahoma, heÕs not a Muslim.  Sometimes what you notice is if something happens when someoneÕs Muslim, they go after everyone, they put more pressure.  But if itÕs someone from another religion, they say itÕs ok, that guy did it, they donÕt say Christians did it, they say Timothy McVeigh did it. But if a Muslim does it they say Muslims did it.  So theyÕre generalizing, taking advantage of it, with the community.  ThatÕs what we feel.   It happened so it happened, itÕs not in your control.  ThereÕs bad and good everywhere.  As a human being.  In the first place we are all human beings.  You canÕt generalize. The changes here, well the police have statistics which show Astoria is much better now.  As Muslims have moved in here there has been less burglary, itÕs become safer.  ItÕs the police saying that not me.  I donÕt know if IÕll stay in Astoria.  You donÕt know what comes after you know.  Nobody knows what comes.  You might be here, then somewhere else, maybe in Europe.  Maybe in Africa.  ItÕs all the same really, mother earth you know.  Wherever you are going is the same people and same way of life.  People are not really different here or somewhere else, itÕs all the same. IÕve lived a little bit in New Jersey, Brooklyn, Manhattan, you know, all over.  A bit in England, a bit in Africa.  IÕve been in a different areas.  And itÕs the same way of life.  You go to work, you have your family, basic.  How people behave in an area makes it good.  Astoria, Manhattan, whatÕs the difference, you know.  Maybe just that in Manhattan people are richer, thatÕs all.  But whatÕs the difference, you know?  In Astoria, the real estate is cheaper and in Manhattan it is expensive, thatÕs the difference.  A: Astoria used to be cheap, not any more.  Yes the rents going up.  Since the crisis, people canÕt afford the rent in Manhattan, so they move over here, and whatÕs happening is by moving over here, the rent also gets higher over here.  IÕve been in three different places in the last 22 years in Astoria.  IÕm right here on Crescent Street and 31st Avenue.    R: You should come here to the mosque when they have food Ðthey have it once a month.  On a Saturday every month. 