Manuel, a member of the Salvation Army Church, is an undocumented immigrant from Lima, Peru. All his life he has been living with his family until he decided to come to the United States country with the purpose of improving his spiritual life. He feels that his economic livelihood comes second to his spiritual life. Manuel has studied music from childhood (since when he was five years old) at the National Conservatory of Music, where his father worked since 1988. He came to the United States to take advantage of his universityÕs Cultural Exchange Program. He recounts his experiences while living in this country. Manuel is devoted to his faith in God and he would like to devote himself entirely to God if he has the opportunity.  00: 00:20  Manuel has always lived with his parents, and his two siblings. When he was five years old he began to study music at the National Conservatory of Music continued to study there until he was 16 years old. He began to pursue a career in music and he studied the career of oboe approximately three years. Unfortunately Manuel had to leave his oboe studies until his oboe was stolen. Manuel could not afford to purchase another oboe. After completing high school Manuel enrolled in at University Inca Garcilaso de la Vega to study nursing, a prospect that he continued until his fourth year at school. He did not complete his nursing studies. The first job Manuel took in Peru was working at a McDonaldÕs, in La Molina. His second and more formal job was teaching as a music teacher at the German School Johannes Gutenberg. He taught morning classes at this school until 2012. In 2010 Manuel joined the Peruvian Air Force which had assimilated the military band. Before coming to the United States, he worked as technical nurse at the Vitarte Hospital. 00:04:00  Manuel was raised a devout Christian family home. In Peru he joined the Salvation ArmyÕs musical band. In 2013, he applied to participate in a Cultural Exchange Program at his university. He was in his in fifth semester and came to the United State for the first time. He received a short term contract for working at a YMCA resort located in the Colorado which ran from November to March. He found his first job here a very tough experience because it was a secluded place in the mountains, there was no public transport and he had no car. The resort provided to workers with shelter and food. This was ManuelÕs first experience in the United States. 00:05:45  Manuel first came to United States, on a flight with a stopover in Houston, where he went through Immigration. From there he took another direct flight to Colorado. After completing his temporary job in Colorado, he decided to come to New York and contacted the Salvation Army. Here he was in New York City for almost month. Manuel knew that had some unfinished matters in in Peru that he had to wrap up. Some of these matters included seeing his younger graduate his high school. In 2014, he returned to Lima, Peru and began working at the Vitarte Hospital. In 2015, Manuel applied to the same Cultural Exchange Program again. Manuel worked in Colorado from November until March 2015, and then he came to New York for the second time. 00:07:41  Manuel decided to come to New York because he wanted to find a new home, a new life, and a new future. He gives "thanks to God" for escaping the economic troubles of Lima. During his second time in New York City he became familiar with the city and was able to navigate it with confidence.  ManuelÕs first job in New York City was a dishwasher. He later obtained employment with the help of his former employers at the Salvation Army. He landed a music related job in Jackson Heights. He describes his job as "now I belong to the band of bronze and also to the choir of Manhattan."   00:09:13  Manuel works Monday to Friday. Although other employment opportunities have shown up, he does not follow through with them because he wants to devote his free time with the Salvation Army. He claims intentions Òis not to make money here, but to start a new lifeÓ and "I know that God has plans for my life." 00: 09:50  After working at YMCA, Manuel found employment at a restaurant called "La Porte–a". This time he was not sure if he had to stay or to return to his country: "I cried and asked God to give me direction." He says that he talked with his family, but for that time it happened something very unique in the restaurant where he was working as busboy: "an afternoon I was working and I was also praying. I said: Lord give me a sign if I should stay or go back to Peru", because his visa still did not expire. Another day while he was working folding napkins he was also praying, and at about three in the afternoon, suddenly: "it began to fall fire... from the front of the restaurant fire was falling down." It was located on the first floor... on the street people heaped, worker could not leave out the premises, then they realized that there was fire in the building, then firefighters arrived, took them out, and they recently realized the "tremendous fire that had on the second floor" and at the top, "so I took it as a sign that I had to go back" to Peru. Until today that building is still empty. 00:13:50  Manuel already know that he can find another job, better and with a more suitable time for his needs and he knows that remuneration can also improve. The first time that he came he took the first job he found, he did not know how much the minimum wage was, he did not know that there were other options, other different schedules. 00:14:15  Manuel has known immigrants and Americans here: "when I have rehearse and in Manhattan for the choir and the band, then all are American, but in the jobs where I have been all are Hispanic (in this area of Jackson Heights all are Hispanic)." 00:14:50  Manuel manifest that he have listened to speak of discrimination that there is toward Latino people, and he believes that "discrimination comes of a Latino towards another Latino rather than of an American to a Latino, because in the places in that he has worked and he has had contact with Americans they has been very good people." He manifest that on the two occasions that he was in Colorado Americans have respected him very much, he was treated with great kindness, even bosses asked please all that they indicate that he had to do, everything was requested with much respect. When you have worked with Latinos, when they ask for something to other Latinos, sometimes they ignored the "please" word and omitted to thank... Manuel said that sometimes when he asked for any advice, any direction, if he could get another better job and the like to some Latinos, they said "«I do not know«... There was no any desire for helping another Latino, and when he did the same consultation to an American, maybe they had not passed for the situation that I was spent, the immigration status I had, but however he told me (É): I'm going to ask, I will see where you can get a job, where you can study, take a course, or who can give you some donation of food, clothing, and they even had more interest and more will for helping a Latino."he did the same consultation to an American, maybe they had not passed for the situation that I was spent, the immigration status I had, but however he told me (É): I'm going to ask, I will see where you can get a job, where you can study, take a course, or who can give you some donation of food, clothing, and they even had more interest and more will for helping a Latino."00: 16:58  Manuel says: "now I am working in a bakery and my coworkers are Latinos... bosses are born here (their parents are from Egypt), and they are very friendly." My coworkers talk almost nothing and when I do any consultation, since they have lived years here, they do not give me any information. In Church people are different because Òwe're like a brotherhood." But a person outside of the church does not have that will. 00:18:05  When Manuel says that the two occasions that he has been here they were very strong shocks, because '' I've always been very close to my family, we have lived all together" (they were three siblings and two parents). In Colorado he had no mobility and he could not go to Church or the Salvation Army because the closer was far away, three-hour driving and he had no car. "There I felt lonely", then in New York things changed a bit by the facility that I have to move, to walk, "and I had the Salvation Army here, which is like a family (É) When someone comes from anywhere in the world and is a member of the Salvation Army, they receive him as a family." Manuel also adds that "I feel that the music was also very important because it opened doors and connected me more with the people." Now he cannot feel alone because he can talk with his family by Skype and by Messenger, so he talks always, then he already do not feel loneliness. 00: 19:51  Manuel thinks that much of what is said about Latinos is true, unfortunately, it is true. Sometimes, is talked about dirtiness and crimes: "bearing in mind what I've experienced, I think that it is true. I have had several experiences... recently someone stolen me my wallet on the 7 train (É) Climbing I saw that they were all Latinos who were around me, there were no Moreno or Americans", then he thinks that a Latino was the one who took his wallet. Miguel says that sometimes we want all Latinos for supporting among us, but we must be realistic: sometimes they pull a paper and not collect it (as opposed to an American), sometimes they cross the track when the signal is red, they are not all, but ÒI feel that only a small proportion of Latinos care for this country and they show some degree of education ", but unfortunately this speaks poorly of all Latinos. 00:21:52  Manuel says that he wants to start a new life here, "If God wants, I would like to start a family (É), to have children and start all over again here. Now my goal is to have a generation that, from my person, grow in a different place as it is this country (...) It is not easy, but I trust in God and if I am in this place is because God has allowed it, he has plans for me, I'm not saying that it has to be soon, but I trust in God, and if he will open the doors, it will open."God has allowed it, he has plans for me, I'm not saying that it has to be soon, but I trust in God, and if he will open the doors, it will open."00:22:56  Manuel knows that not all persons with whom he has relationship are such believers as he is, but ÒI respect the beliefs of each one. I don't want to impose my beliefs, but these are on the basis of God (É) I am one hundred percent sure and have great faith in what I believe." 00: 23:22  Manuel points out that "if I'm on the train and I see a brawl, a fight or an act of racism by certain people to some Latinos (É), if I have seen the full context of how it was given, and I feel that it is unfair what is happening, I could intervene in a respectful way, I would try to see if with what I say I can solve that verbal discussion. But if I'm in a place and I do not know how the situation has been started and I just only see that there is a type of attack, I could not intervene because it is unclear which of the two parties is right." 00:24:52  Manuel says that "if we talk about politics... well I have heard what it has said the elected President of this country, that he will deport more than two or three million undocumented who have legal background or who have committed a crime, then by that side have no fear (...) God is who gives me security, tranquility, calm, peace (É) Regardless of who is the President, I think that taking God on my side I know that He will open doors and He will allow in my life what is His will.Ó 00:25:50  Manuel recalls that in Colorado, where he worked, "had people of all countries, for the Exchange Program, and all had different types of beliefs. Even in Colorado, the consumption of marijuana is legal, then most of people smoked marijuana, they ate marijuana", and he respected all that. He says that he has friendships, not so nearby, but that they not are believers, "they do not share the same belief that I have and neither my faith (...) but they are friendships that one get to appreciate." Manuel has not had any kind of clashes with people of other faiths, "because I think that people who are smart have to respect the beliefs of both of the other part and on my part (...) I feel that one chooses friends, that one knows with whom one wants to have a closer relationship, and never, thank God, I had a shock or a large discussion about my faith, it has never happened." Among the others who do not share their faith, and him, there is respect: "I respect the way they are, but I do not share" many things or actions that they have and they also respect his convictions even though they do not share their faith. 00:27:40  Manuel says that his father has visited him some time ago: "I felt very happy, very happy, and I feel satisfied because I believe that he has been a person... he and my mom... that I have grown up with them and they have given me everything, that they have been outstanding the food, the payment of the light, the payment of... thousands of things when one is a boy in Peru (É) When one is young, adolescent... and this time (É) I felt full of give him back, even with a little, how much they gave me for so many years of my life (...) and now I was given him the comforts that he has given me throughout my life."payment of... thousands of things when one is a boy in Peru (É) When one is young, adolescent... and this time (É) I felt full of give him back, even with a little, how much they gave me for so many years of my life (...) and now I was given him the comforts that he has given me throughout my life."00:28:43  Manuel manifests that this is a multicultural place, and he has friends from Spain, Ecuador, Mexico, England, Uruguay, Argentina... some are of his Church and others are not. In the works in which he has been it has had a mixture of nationalities. 00:29:36  Manuel says that psychologically he feels stable and quiet now, although he cannot no deny that, at the beginning, when he newly arrived, he had collided with this new life in a country that is too hard for working, and for living. There was Òa little bit of sadness that you felt, I could say depression for remembering home, but now I feel very well, thanks to God that makes me feel quiet." He adds that "the security for a Christian, for someone who believes in God and who shares our faith (...) not is in us, not is in my own forces, in what I can achieve as my work or as Manuel, but our security lies in God, by that is that I am quiet, that I feel safe psychologically. I feel that my dad is gone physically, my biological father, but God, who is my spiritual father, is always with me." 00:30:54  Manuel says that he has his mom inside his mind and his own expression tells us that he misses her so much: "I love my dad and my mom, but I have always had a slightly closer relationship with my mom. I miss her a lot, but thanks to technology I can talk too her more than five times every day... sometimes people here... or the American people who have grown up in this cultureÉ they do not have such closeness" and they are surprised when they see him talking to her three or four times a day. He says: "I don't know about other countries, but with Latinos I've heard that it is also the same (É) I miss her, but I always speak with her, so I don't feel so much that she is not with me." 00:32:00  Manuel tells us that he wants to establish a family: "That is the desire of my heart, if God allows it", that is the idea that he has put in prayer. He thinks that is God who opens the doors, and he takes that it is the will of God that he is here. ÒI am not here because I want to become a millionaire, because I want to work (É) I know many people who work from Monday to Sunday, who work at night and have enough money. This is a country that, thanks God, has many opportunities for someone who wants to make money and I must thank to this country and thank God that allowed me to... and I bless the new President, but is not the engine and reason why I'm here." Manuel is in this country only to "serve God" and "if given the opportunity to serve him full timeÉ it is my desireÉ and starting a new life in this place."   00:33:14  Manuel points out that "I could also serve God in my country, but it was the willingness of serving God here that brought me", because the Exchange Program by which he came only allowed up to certain age (26 years old), however he was 27 years old and he made the program in less than a month before he traveled (perhaps fifteen days), and "it was something incredible." At that time he was already working at the Hospital and had been keeping his money because he lived with his parents. Of course he supported in the House expenses, but some of his salary he had for himself and that money he kept itÉ And, suddenly, Manuel felt that he could go back to the Exchange Program while some people told him that he would waste his money, and that the visa would not be given to him. "In the Exchange Program I had to pay the company that brings me, pay the visa (É) and that is a strong expenditure (such as 2000 dollars more or less)." But contrary to those who told him not to do it, he arose because he had money saved and he didn't ask anything of his parents and, despite registering something late, the Agency accepted himÉ  The agency that brought him in 2014 did not accept him because it was very soon, because their earlier trip was very close, so he went to another one that was more expensive. In this second agency they asked for his documents, it did not put any but and sent him a contract, and the total cost was less than it was the first time. 00:35:22  Manuel also says that "all the doors were opened: I went to the interview and the Embassy did not ask me nothing, just it told me: is this the second time you're going to work at the same place? He answered Òyes" and after filling out the forms he was awarded the paper he needed... Manuel also says that he was serving God in Peru because he was going to the Salvation Army almost full-time: "I was studying and all my free time I invested in the Salvation Army in Peru, with young people and music (É) but what I always really wish from the bottom of my heart it was to serve God in this place. Then I said: If that is your will, doors will open", and that He did and "I want to tell you that God has a plan for me in this place." 00:36:17  Manuel speaks about free will: "will mean choice, then when the Bible speaks of will, it means that God gives us free choice. In His great love and mercy He allows us to take the final decision... He makes a plan for each of us, but... as a verse in the Bible says: I put life and death before you; I put the blessing and the curse in front of you. At the end, He does not oblige anybody, but He has given us the privilege of having free will and each of us can choose." Manuel believes that this could be complicated for people because there is always, for all things, two ways that one can follow: the good and the evil, and evil is always the most appetizing, "evil draws more attention, it looks better and, by choice, one chooses the own pathÓ, and it could be a different one that He has traced for each one of usÉ Manuel says that unlike other types of faith, of other religions that that is something mandatory and that parents impose on children, in Christianity, which is the faith he shares, that is not the case: in his Church parents instill (or teach) to the children, but the final decision is of each one, that is free will that God gives to each one, and it is each one who chooses the path to be followed.the own pathÓ, and it could be a different one that He has traced for each one of usÉ Manuel says that unlike other types of faith, of other religions that that is something mandatory and that parents impose on children, in Christianity, which is the faith he shares, that is not the case: in his Church parents instill (or teach) to the children, but the final decision is of each one, that is free will that God gives to each one, and it is each one who chooses the path to be followed.00:38:06  Manuel tells us: "I was born in a Christian home, but that did not mean that I would have to be one of them, because there are many families who are Christians but their children are not, that they do not share the same faith (É) That's the wonderful thing about free will... I took the decision of follow the same faith that my parents had, the faith that they shared, and I myself made the decision to follow Christ, to be a ChristianÓ, to go to Church and give his life to God and hold Christian valuesÉ ÒThe journey of my life, the way of how I live my life, my actions, are governed by God, for what it's in the Bible (...) No one forces me, no one beat me to it, but that is a decision that I took. I had a personal experience with GodÉ so during all my life, I follow both, the career of music as well as the career of nursing; it has always been a decision of my own and is what God has always put in my heart. I am not going to say that I have always taken the right decision, there have been moments in my life that, thanks to the free will, I made the wrong decisions and took roads that I should not have to (É) Like all human beings, we tend to fail, we tend to make mistakes, but, as the Bible says, as God says, He is faithful and just to forgive us from all sins." Manuel points out that it has made good and bad decisions, but it is the Word of God who forgives and shows the correct way to him. 00:40:39  The Salvation Army has given him many opportunities: in 2010, in Peru, he had the privilege of travelling to Holland and Sweden, by means of this institution, to a global Convention of youth of this Church in Sweden, where they discussed issues that dealt with the situations in their own countries and "I had the privilege of being the only Peruvian who traveled to it." Manuel says that the Salvation Army is one family more for him and it has served and supported him here spiritually, emotionally and materially (it has provided him food when he spent time out of work), he always has the word of encouragement of pastors, leaders, brothers and all the friends he has there. This Church has a job in this country that focuses much on the social, as opposed to the Peru where jobs are almost unknown. However here, this Church is well known: they are responsible for giving free food and clothing from Monday to Friday.   00:43:08  Manuel thinks that New York has many similarities with Lima... When he talked with people from other States, when he lived in Colorado, they told him that this was a very dangerous and dirty city, and it was the oldest in the United States. He considers now that this city has a little bit of each one of those things. But, in general, he feels very comfortable here precisely for its similarity with Lima in many respects. Of course, security here is much better, he says... New York is a city where you can find all kind of things, in others States it is very difficult to get some things... When Manuel lived in Colorado, he missed quite Peruvian cuisine, but here he misses nothing because stores sell Peruvian products, and "as I know a little cooking, I prepare same Peruvian dishes: I can find the ingredients in supermarkets." And, in this city, there are a lot of Peruvian restaurants, "of course that I prefer cooking by myself for saving." 00:44:54  Manuel misses his friends, but it is not much because he can talk with them by Internet. Although he said he has friends that were very close in Lima, friends of whom he was talking every day and were all together... Recently he has read that when one travels, friendship can go missing in time, and he believes that that it is truth because now, that he lives here and his friends are in Lima, it is not the same as when they were physically close. Conversations with his friends have been reduced to the minimum. 00:45:34  Manuel missed Lima at the beginning, and he wanted to return, but now that his father has been visiting him, he considers that that has been as if he would have been in Peru again. In that brief time in which his father was with him, Manuel felt at home, in Lima. They were talking and distributing tasks of buying and cleaning. His father was coming to visit him, and "brought the Peru and my home with him." He has had the idea of returning because it is not easy to be here. In this country works are tougher than those he had in the Peru. His father's presence calmed him a little, and he feels better now: "Let's see how long" he adds. Perhaps, he says, it last until he can return or his mom comes to visit him... Yes, he misses, but that makes him to see that now he has things clear and the goal drawn or the plan of life sustained by GodÕs will. Manuel is sure that everything is going well because it is God's will what it is happening, because if that would be not His will it would not happen, but He will show us the wayÉ and it will be always one time to return. 00:47:05  Manuel does not know what things could make him different from so many others who have come in his same unlawful situation, he does not know the story of others. Although he clearly says that it has no sense to mark differences with others because each one makes the decisions of his life, each one makes a plan of his own life. Manuel adds that yes, he has seen, and knows, many things here, but he would not make any difference between him and the others: "I can't find the sense of it." Manuel has been formed at Christian home and the other people have arrived of other types of households and he could not tell if a person is best or worst that himself because situations are different. Manuel can see, yes, that Latinos wasted their money on alcohol, which is very common in all the jobs that he has been: at the end of a working day, after midnight, they all gather all together for drinking and spending their money on that, which is for him unnecessary since it does not provide him any welfare in its health and it is a futile expenditure of money. Manuel says that he does not know from what kind of home those workers have come, he does not know if, at their homes, their parents also had drunken or had problems with alcoholÉ Some of them send money to their countries, but in the short time that he knows them he has no enough confidence with them and they did not tell him that kind things, and he adds that he also sends money to Peru.sense of it." Manuel has been formed at Christian home and the other people have arrived of other types of households and he could not tell if a person is best or worst that himself because situations are different. Manuel can see, yes, that Latinos wasted their money on alcohol, which is very common in all the jobs that he has been: at the end of a working day, after midnight, they all gather all together for drinking and spending their money on that, which is for him unnecessary since it does not provide him any welfare in its health and it is a futile expenditure of money. Manuel says that he does not know from what kind of home those workers have come, he does not know if, at their homes, their parents also had drunken or had problems with alcoholÉ Some of them send money to their countries, but in the short time that he knows them he has no enough confidence with them and they did not tell him that kind things, and he adds that he also sends money to Peru.00:52:10  Manuel does not watch so much television, but he has bought his TV two months ago, because his father was coming to visit him and his father had to spent much time alone because he was at work.  00:53:15  Miguel manifest that he has heard of difficult cases (in reference to illegal immigrants), he has heard that they had to come across the border. That has surprised him. But he also met people to whom it was surprisingly easier to reach this country (and this was two years ago). He thought that it was impossible or very difficult to... Manuel has heard of things that are shocking experiences... He has a grandmother who lives in Peru now, but that she came across the border long time ago, and she had come in a bus, along with other people, inside the suitcases chamber, and in that place were children, women and men all squashed together, but he does not like to ask her any details because he felt uncomfortable. He only wanted to know, in a very general way, how it was. 00:54:43  Manuel has been a very short times in all his jobs: in a previous job he was four months and now he carries some six months... perhaps he has not still been enough time for having confidence with his coworkers... In the job that he has at the present, each one is tucked in his own things and no one talks. Even in the job interview for obtaining the present job, the boss said to him: "here each one makes his own work, and nobody has to have interaction with almost anybody." And that is the real thing, because conversations with his coworkers are minimal, and what he knows about others is more because he listens to them talking, and that is something inevitable because they are all in the same environment, but each one has his own part while he is working, and each one knows what he has to do and nothing elseÉ Inside the Church some has told him generalities, but nothing in detail: they have said to him that passing through the border was very difficult, and, for Manuel, that was a complicated experience, but he has not questioned beyond that point... Sometimes when he is on the bus, he listens to conversations on this subject, but he feels that it is very delicate to ask about that.he has not questioned beyond that point... Sometimes when he is on the bus, he listens to conversations on this subject, but he feels that it is very delicate to ask about that.00:56:41  Manuel says that this is the first time that he has been surrounded by people from so many different countries for so a long time, because the experience of Sweden was shorter... He says that in Peru people were saying to him terrible things about this country, among them there were his grandmother and his aunt, they told him that here there are no jobs if you do not have documents, they said that all things are very expensive here. Other friends were telling him the same thing... But when he came to this country he could discover that that was not true and it was one of the surprises that he had when he came to New York, in particular.  Perhaps the people discouraged him, Manuel thinks, by their lack of interest to help him, but he found that everything was different in this country: he feels that there is enough jobs: when you are looking for on the internet there are a lot of ads, in the same restaurants owners put them outside, and even he can find cheaper products in supermarkets than in Peru. 01:00:30  Manuel disagrees with those who say that Latino removed jobs to American people, because Latinos do not impose their wish of working, but are employers which hire them, so, employers take the decision and they have their reasons to do that... "I think that it is a pointless affirmation or idea, because ultimately the decision is from the employers and they prefer to Latinos for x reasons, but the fault is not ours." 01:01:14  Manuel says that where he works currently bosses are Americans, but all workers are Latinos. 01:01:44  Manuel wants to add, before finishing this interview, addressing to people who live in Queens, that if you need any help, if you are without work or are passing difficult times for eating, you can reach to the Salvation Army and there you will eat free every day.  