My name is Sid and IÕm an EMT [Emergency Medical Technician] with the New York City Fire Department.  It involves a lot of things - anything from picking up drunks on the street, to cardiac arrests, severe trauma jobs.  We come from Woodside but we cover pretty much anywhere on the West end of Queens.  We do eight hours or sixteen hours in each shift depending on the schedule.  I mean helping people thatÕs the most important thing. All the stuff that we do, even though we donÕt get rewarded by it, itÕs a good feeling; we do a lot of things and pretty much New York City EMS, you know we donÕt get the credit that we should be getting.  While most of the stuff that we do, pretty much we have the New York City Fire Department in front of us, the fire department get the credit and we donÕt get the credit for it.  We go to fires as well, yes.  Pretty much we take care of the patients; they take care of the fire.  So whoever they bring to us, we take care of them.  Half-dead, we bring them back alive, bring back here, and thatÕs the end of it.  Some people, especially family members around, like half of them they say thank you; they come to you, others they just donÕt really care.  [What training do you have to do?].  Depending on where you do it, I mean IÕve been a volunteer for all my life.  But on Long Island itÕs about six months training.  Here in the city itÕs about a three months training.  It involves first aid and basic life support, CPR including stabilizing patients, and thatÕs pretty much it.  I also do it voluntarily Ð IÕve been doing it voluntarily.  It works a little differently in Long Island because we do everything at once.  We do fire, rescue, and ambulance first aid at the same time.  While here itÕs separate.  Fire is fire, EMS is EMS.  Even though Long Island has those as well but I think it works a lot better because everything is together.  Over here itÕs like one takes one side and one takes the other side.  Over here this is my job, I get paid for it.  But in Long Island, it was just the excitement, all the things that we used to do; I mean the volunteer fire department has everything.  It was nice, IÕm still doing it.  I was born in Colombia. IÕve been in the States 27 years now.  In 27 years IÕve been back like seven or eight times.  ItÕs a little expensive to go down there!  I came here when I was still a kid.  So other than my family and some of my elementary school friends I donÕt know anybody there, so itÕs a little different.  In this area the Colombian community isnÕt so big.  They are more towards Jackson Heights.  And now they are moving out to Long Island, like where I am all the way out in Suffolk County.  Lately there have been a lot of Colombian people moving to that area, from all over the place.  [Future plans?].  Well first I want to become a paramedic, and I donÕt know - maybe later on, try to go for a nurse or a PA [physicianÕs assistant], either way.  The neighborhood around here is pretty good, you know depending on which way you look at it.  ThereÕs a lot of diversity around here.  You get people on one side of the town Brazilians, on this side Italians, and then you get Middle Easterners on the other side, and then you come more on this side again and have people fromÉwhat is itÉfrom AthensÉGreek people.  You see good interaction between the communities. 