Unlike many of his contemporaries, Vincent Arcuri, Jr. has spent practically his whole life in Glendale, NY. This locale and its surrounding areas form the backdrop for many happy memories, from playing ball and attending dance halls to hanging out in local bars—bonafide family establishments in those days—and enjoying meals with his large Italian American clan. Mr. Arcuri forged a 40-year career in construction and had a hand in building some of NYC’s most important structures. Now retired, he continues his longtime involvement with Queens Community Board 5 and other volunteer organizations, as steadfast as ever in his conviction that civic engagement is the foundation of a strong community. 00:00:42 Queens Community Board 5 is considered “the town” and within the town are “villages”: Ridgewood, Glendale, Maspeth, Middle Village, etc. Within those villages are little “hamlets.”  00:02:00 Depending on section, you find either mostly one-family houses, two-family houses, or six-family houses – the “Matthews Flats.” The geography of the area and why, in a sense, it is isolated.  00:03:40 “(Glendale) was surrounded by cemeteries, with a bar or a funeral parlor around every corner.” 00:04:08 The demographic today – “probably a microcosm of Queens County, a little bit of everything.” It is still predominantly white, though. Community Board 5 could be considered the whitest district in the city – at least in Queens anyway. 00:06:51 There have been many changes over the years, but it still a family-oriented community, working class, government workers. 00:10:16 V.A.J. is a product of NYC’s public school system. He attended P.S. 91, Richmond Hill High School, and New York City Community College.  00:12:27 Graduated in June 1957 from Richmond Hill High School. Huge student population in those days meant some students went to class in an annex; crossing Jamaica Avenue, he was mugged for his lunch money regularly. Overpopulation also meant he was assigned to senior gym as a freshman.  Swimming classes were separated between boys and girls. The girls were supplied with 1930s vintage bathing suits while the boys simply swam naked.  00:16:45 V.A.J. was accepted to New York City Community College. “My mother thought that was the greatest thing because I was the first in the family to go to college.” He paid for his first year in college from the nickel-a-week insurance policy that his parents took out on him when he was a baby (child mortality rates were high when he was born in 1939, so it was a big thing then).  00:18:10 Senior Prom. The white sport coat, the pink carnation. Limo to Manhattan. Ferry to Staten Island to see the Statue of Liberty. Nightclub in Brooklyn to hear Tony Bennett. Someone’s house for breakfast. Then go home, get changed, go to Rockaway Beach and sleep off the day. There’s probably only five of the old crew left in the area. Unlike his friends, except for three years in Flushing, V.A.J. spent his whole life in Glendale. 00:21:12 How he met his wife. Young people went to dances then: Triangle Ballroom in Richmond Hill, Hoffman Hall in Glendale, a few places in Ridgewood, the Jamaica YMCA… At the Sunday Social at the Cresthaven Country Club, “I met this little blonde in a nice little black dress and polished toenails, and that was that.” The dance halls are gone now. He feels sorry for today’s young people. 00:22:52 “Back then, the drinking age was 18… even though we started at 14.” There was a bar on every corner. They were all family bars. “Rushing the Growler” – there were few bottled/canned beer then, so as a boy he was sent to the pub at the corner to pick up beer in a growler, a two-quart tin pot with a cover. The bars were social places, with fishing clubs and sports teams. The local kids grew up in bars. It was natural. When they grew up and had their own families, they brought their kids to the bars too.  00:26:34 His ancestors are from Italy. His mother’s parents originated from Castelgrande and his paternal grandfather moved from Reggio Calabria.  His father was a Teamster by age 14. To make extra money, Arcuri Sr. played the piano in silent movie theaters in Manhattan. The man was an entrepreneur with several ventures; by the time V.A.J. was born, the family had a gas station on Wyckoff Avenue behind the Madison Theater in Ridgewood.  00:29:40 V.A.J. is the youngest of seven children. During WWII, he was surrounded by women. This was how he learned to cook.  00:30:31 On Sundays, his mother would cook meatballs and family from all over would come to the house. “Sunday was the big red sauce meal.”   His best friend was German. On Saturday, V.A.J. was at his friend’s house for a German lunch; on Sunday, his best friend would come over for some Italian.  00:32:09 “In 1944, we made the mistake of moving in in August. That was after Italy capitulated.” It was WWII and Italians were unpopular. Life was rough for the Arcuris for a few years, but his mother was one tough lady. Assimilation in this city is never complete, though. As he grew up, he realized that he was seen as an Italian, not an American. When he was starting out in construction, he was denied opportunities because of his Italian background.  00:35:55 “‘You know, you’re a pretty good worker. For an Italian.’” 00:36:12 After a runaround, he gets his break. “He didn’t care if you were black, pink, yellow, orange, male or female – so long as you were working.”  At Turner Construction Company back then, contracting was a WASP-y business, but he got in because of his skills with concrete. Prejudice never really went away.  00:39:35 He retired on December 31st, 2001, after participating in the WTC cleanup.  “I can tell you I’m one of the few people who reached their childhood ambition.”  V.A.J. was involved in a number of famous projects, including the Lipstick Building, Trump Village in Coney Island, and 323 Broadway. His kids were present at every project that he ever built.   00:43:56 He has four children. Two stayed in Queens (one lives down the block), while the other two are in Maryland and California. Four grandchildren are all over. Most went to college. All are doing well. “Not bad for a dumb Italian laborer.” 00:46:47 He serves as chairman of Queens Community Board 5. He also chairs the transportation committee, which is one of the busiest committees. Right now the biggest issue he deals with is the City wants to put a homeless shelter in an industrial area, next to a chemical plant. Busy with infrastructure projects. 00:50:58 What he’s proudest of in his long career with the CB5. From a dirty, dangerous area in the 1970s, the community is one of the cleanest and safest in Queens. 00:53:21 You can see how important civic engagement is in this community. “If one community fails, all of us fail.” This is why he is involved in so many organizations. The origins of G-COP as a civilian patrol, his participation in the Knights of Columbus, the Boy Scouts, Greater Ridgewood Historical Society, Myrtle Avenue Business Improvement District…  00:59:26 He thought Queens, this community in particular, was so special because everybody knew everybody, or used to. Now it’s starting to be that way again. 01:00:40 One strength of these communities is the people who emigrated from Gottschee, Germany. Original settlers in Ridgewood in the 1800s. Strong and hard-working people. Like V.A.J., they don’t leave either.  They’re a hit with the hipsters too, who are bringing their own businesses into town. 01:05:15 He doesn’t play ball anymore, but he still considers himself a typical Glendale man. He walks down the street and notices everything. In this town, when an ambulance passes by, everybody opens their window to look.  01:06:01 He was raised by his parents to be independent and responsible. As a boy, he walked to school with his friends, went to the playground afterwards, and when they heard the train go by they knew that it was time to come home for dinner. 01:08:43 V.A.J. was honored with awards and recognitions by different organizations.     