Rev. Austin Armistead was born on December 30, 1924 in New Hampshire. He was raised in different parts of New Hampshire and finally settled in Jackson Heights, Queens, New York. His father was a minister who served in World War I. Mr. Armistead followed in his father’s footsteps by serving in World War II.  While serving, his best friend was killed in battle thirty feet away from him. He witnessed many of those who were considered “politically incorrect” die during the war. Witnessing these horrific events as well as strong influence from his mother led Austin to become a pastor until the age of seventy. His biggest hope for the community was to have those of diverse backgrounds work together to be a great influence not only his community of Jackson Heights but in the world.   00:00:57 Austin Armistead was born in what considered to be a “famous place”. He was born in    New Hampshire on December 30, 1924. 00:04:46 Growing up, Mr. Armistead considered himself a typical child. He talked about doing    many activities with his family, including going to baseball games. His family uprooted    and moved  to a coal mining region in Pennsylvania and then later moved to New York.  00:10:08 Rev. Armistead originally wanted to be a sports journalist or lawyer. Ironically, his last    choice was to become a pastor.  00:13:12 He recalls a horrific event where his best friend was killed in the battlefield thirty feet    away from him.  00:16:58 While imprisoned in Germany, Austin noticed a ‘code of ethics’ within the prison groups.   The biggest code was to not steal from fellow prisoners. This was seen as the worst    thing one could do amongst inmates.  00:28:22 While serving in World War II, Mr. Armistead witnessed the eradication of those    considered “politically incorrect”, particularly Jews.He couldn’t stand the thought of    people being killed through no fault of their own. Through service and prompting from    his mother, he decided to take a year off of college and decided he wanted to become a    pastor.  00:34:42 Mr. Armistead says his worst sin was not knowing how to say “no”. He was heavily    involved in many causes, including the Salvation Army.  00:41:18 Mr. Armistead notes that the biggest change he noticed in the community during his    time as a pastor in Jackson Heights was the increase diversity. He says this new diversity    is what “built America”.  Mr. Armistead was a pastor for Community United Methodist    Church in Jackson Heights and his congregation consisted of people from sixty nations.    His hope for the community was for people of a wide variety of backgrounds     collaborate, as opposed to one group thinking they own the “turf”.  00:47:09 Mr. Armistead defines community as hope. He hopes it is something that can be a    greater influence in the world.  00:50:48 His number one advice for people is to be yourself.  