Benny Banker, originally from Gujarat in India, works for the United States Postal Service and has been delivering mail along 30th Ave in Astoria for 13 years. He talks about how the work it not as tough as people may think -the really hot days or the snowstorms are only around 10 days in a year -and the importance of a positive attitude. He says that despite its financial difficulties he thinks the postal service will survive, particularly in cities. Context of interview: "30th Ave -A year in the life of a street" project (www.30thAve.org) My name is Benny Banker. My primary job is letter carrier in Astoria station, covering most of this heart part of Astoria. Like Astoria General Hospital which is now Mount Sinai, there are a lot of doctors around here. It's a nice residential area. I've been doing it more than 13 years in this neighborhood. Actually speaking I love my job because it's a service for the people. I feel good seeing old people -when they see me they wait for me and they become so happy. If I am off like two or three days or a week, everybody feels like a family member came back after a long time. The second thing I like about the job is it's my lifesaver, because it gives me compulsory exercise every day. If I take two weeks' vacation and go for my tests, everything is elevated. To be honest the difficult and the easy thing is just your mindset. Yes, this job looks like it's hard but I think it is not that bad. Especially when people see us in the snow and the rain they feel really sorry about us. But if you talk about counting the full year of 365 days we hardly have those heat-waves and those mountains of the snow or the rain. Hardly I would say ten days. So if you can ride on through those ten days then this job is not bad. If you look at it as a challenge. Especially like tomorrow is going to be a storm -a lot of people said why don't you call in sick. I have a doctor's appointment and he said I might need to stay home and I said no, these are the days when my community needs me more. So I'm going to work. On the day when there was the biggest snowstorm I woke up at four in the morning, I walked to the subway station and I took a train and I made it here by eight o' clock, from four o'clock. I managed to work, while 80% of people they didn't make it to their work. I live very far in Queens Village, one and a half hours train ride -maybe one hour by driving. It's all up to your installation, where you work. Originally I started in Brooklyn, then there was a lot of commute. At that time I lived in Woodside and it was too much for me, the commute, so I applied for a transfer and within six months my choice area came up .I'd chosen Long Island City. I applied for this route here and I got it. I was born in India, in Gujarat. I was not even married when I came here. Then in 1977 I went back to my country, got married and came back here. I have three kids -two sons are doctor and one is in business management. One is a pediatrician in Houston, another is a GI in Stonybrook and my daughter still got married and she's still with me until her husband comes back. All these small complexes are turning into multiple buildings which creates a parking problem mainly. Before we used to find any time and we used to find parking, and not anymore. We have to struggle for the parking. Like every other business the post office is also in the midst of hardship but I personally don't think that's a serious problem. People do need to mail a letter. The parcels and things are to my calculation I think they will survive and I don't think we need to think "oh my God." Every business has a right to save the money and they are trying but what Basically we used to have a lot of first class mail before. Now we have more junk mail but even that one is decreasing. But it's not stopping, people still mail things like lawyers documents and everything, they still have to have a hard copy. What I say is think positive you 're going to get positive. If you think negative, you 're like inviting negative stuff by just thinking negative. I do a lot of web designing on the side. I have websites for my mother's memory http://www.virendra.net/kkamuba, for my community http://www.22493.com that meets every week for the prayers (we have a block party every year), I have my union's website, and I pretty much enjoy doing that. [and also for his music http://www.avkny.com -http://www.virendra.net -Benny sings classical and devotional music] Usually Sunday morning I'm an early bird, I'm up like at 6 o'clock. 