Keri Barker, 27, is originally from Seattle. She is an artist, and works as a fitness instructor at Planet Fitness to pay the bills. Her goal is to save enough money to buy a condo in Astoria within 10 years -she feels totally at home here. She talks about the inspiration for her art, the artistic community in Astoria, gay-friendly venues, and places she likes to go out at night. Context of interview: "30th Ave -A year in the life of a street" project (www.30thAve.org). Transcript notes for research I'm Keri Barker. For a living I work right now at Planet Fitness to pay the bills. But my passion is to paint. I'm a fine oil painter. And I'm aspiring to be a screenwriter as well. I'm originally from Seattle. When I was about five I demanded from my mom why we didn't live in New Jersey. I had no explanation. I was just like I want to live in New Jersey. My whole East Coast thing never went away. Then I was 22 and working for a computer company and it was a dead-end job to say the least. I had some friends from college who always knew I wanted to live out here. My college roommate sent me a text message saying I have some friends who moved to New York and one of them is leaving to Alaska and needs someone to take over his room. Would you be interested? The room was $465 a month, in Inwood. A week after I moved here, the guy whose room I took over was like "hey, I have this job at NYU for their musical theater company CAP21". He said maybe you can get the job. I sent them my resume and never heard anything back from them until he'd moved. Then they gave me a call -they interviewed me and hired me and I started my job a week after I got here. And perhaps a month later my lead bosses, the two who owned the company, asked me about my work. They said "could you redesign our lobby?" They're a husband and wife team and the wife loved my work. I hand-painted on the door the words "The Shop" which was the name of the theater. And they gave me a display wall to put up any work I wanted for as long as I was working there. I left the job to pursue other things -it was kind of a college job. I'd got a job in an art company shipping art. I thought that would inspire me but instead it did just the opposite. Like I'm shipping other people's art but I'm an artist, and I want to be the one whose art is being shipped. So I got back with one of my bosses at CAP and said I have this body of work -I had 10 of them, paintings of hands -and I had this photograph series that I'd done of all the big statues in Calvary Cemetery. I had come out of a really kind of dark time in my life and thought I kind of want to do this art show about loss, and death. I named it "death in life." In finding the cemetery with all these beautiful statues I was like "there's a lot of life" that can come out of death. The hand paintings were inspired by my one and only girlfriend. We were together for three years and she was a schizophrenic and very sick. Towards the end she took a really bad turn for the worse. For me the only way that I could sort of deal with what was happening and the intensity of the relationship was to paint. And it's weird for me how I manifested that by painting these hands, because hands to me have a lot of life, they're very human. It was such a traumatic relationship, I loved her so much and wanted her to be healthy but she was undeniably sick. And it was my first introduction to the fact that mental illness is difficult, painful, hard to deal with and look into the eyes of. I was so young at the time and when I met her I didn't know that was what I would be dealing with. That was in Seattle. I contacted NYU and my old boss was like sure, we'll let you have a show in the theater. I thought perhaps they'd give me a rehearsal studio, but they gave me the whole theater for a night. They said we'll hook up all the lights so that there are spotlights on the pieces, it was very fancy. They even let me have food in there. They said because you used to work here and you cleaned so well, we trust that you will clean up afterwards spotlesslessly! I moved to Astoria very whimsically. I moved here in May of2006. I had met somebody at the theater who worked in the program, who was like "I'm from Podunk Washington", and I was like "I'm from Podunk Washington too." I'm from South of Seattle, this town called Auburn, and she's from Federal Way -they're neighboring towns. We started hanging out and she happened to live in Astoria. One evening I came out to visit her here on Broadway and I just instantly fell in love with the area. I just thought this area is beautiful. I don't know anything about it but I just had such an amazingly good vibe. I came here late in the evening. But the street was still lively, there were so many lights. And the people seemed friendly. It didn't feel in any way sketchy or unnerving. And this was at 12, 1 in the morning. Whereas when I lived in Spanish Harlem we tended not to leave our apartment after 11. Just because it didn't feel right, you know. A few months later when I had an opportunity coming up for a lease coming up in Spanish Harlem I decided on Astoria. I got here before I really knew about the arts community here. I got here and started making all my friends here, making my life here and now I hardly even leave. It's amazing the arts community. At one time I and another artist have talked about having an Astoria arts thing going so that we can be more exposed. It's in the works among my artist friends, we just haven't got there yet. I hang out with a lot of both straight and gay people. The gay scene isn't terrible in Astoria. But I do find most of my dates on OK Cupid because it's easier that way. I know that Crescent Lounge is gay-friendly, and there are definitely other some bars around here that are too. The Hell Gate Social Club, that's the place that I frequent a lot. It was one of those environments that just suited me. I'm not a big nightlife person, I like my comfy-cozy know-everybody can go on the nights of the week type place. I like Broadway Station, I like Break. I like places where you can go and have something to do, people to meet. I'm always genuinely surprised by how diverse Astoria is. I tend to paint mostly on sheer inspiration. Part of the reason I left the art company was it was taking up so much of my time and stressing me out, and ironically I was being paid very far below average for the position I was in. Then they put a wage freeze on. I realized that I was living in a place (on 30th Ave) with reasonable rent because our landlady loves us and its rent stabilized, and you know, I'm at a moment in my life when I can get a job that's definitely more conducive to being able to do art. So that's why I got the job at Planet Fitness. It's probably the most stress-free job you can imagine. I love working out. It's only 30 hours a week but it's enough to pay the bills -I go there from 9 to 3 and get off and my day is so full. I paint in the evenings and on the weekends. These Heaven landscapes I did last year. The year changes and my inspiration changes. So then almost at the flip of the year I was like I can't do those landscapes any more, and started to do these weird block paintings that I have right here in the kitchen. These two paintings are two I found on the streets of Astoria. One I found face-down in the snow and picked it up. My roommate then thought it was one of mine. Then I found this one in front of an auto-shop. I started painting in 2002. Some paintings can take me three days, or a week. But sometimes I could do two in a day. I got to a point with the hand paintings when the inspiration started to come out really fast. That's one of my favorite things about painting. I'm not sure where it's going to go. But I have an inner confidence that when I have a canvas and a paintbrush in my hand it will end up looking exactly as it's supposed to. Almost every time I step back I think it's better than I could have ever imagined. There isn't a single one that I haven't been surprised by. This soldier painting -it's based on a black and white photo, I felt I akin to that soldier, I felt like I could feel what he was feeling. I love the peacefulness of it, really. My preferred time to paint is when I'm alone in the apartment. It puts me into this centeredness, calmness, this sense of peace. At the same time my mind might race with thoughts, that I feel that I'm supposed to just go over because I'm not concentrating on them. Almost like I can be an objective observer to my thought process. And in a way it's almost like it just brings me peace and clarity. The only frustration I have is ifl don't have inspiration or I loose inspiration. Or I just come to the end of a series and know that I'm done. I have a deep fascination with hands. It stems from those old drying pads with colored construction paper. On that was a sketched hand with a pencil. My dad was an artist and when I was a kid I used to find his tablets and sketchpads. He was the most amazing artist and I would never be as good as him. He was mostly pencil and charcoal sketcher. I thought I'll never be as good but I'll always try. I remember seeing those pads and thinking "I want to draw my hand, drawing something. I did that, and drew my hand, drew my hand, drew my hand. The idea of drawing a hand is very complex. I haven't taken many art classes but I did in high school and I took one in community college, and it's amazing how art teachers will focus a lot on the difficulty of hands. So very early on I had a fascination with them. And thought "well it's difficult so I'm going to try doing it." And for me there's just so much life in them. It's what gives me life, and I couldn't paint without them. My parents do support what I do. They think I'm crazy as an artist, though they think it's great. They think it's great that I try so hard and have had shows etc. But they know it doesn't make much money. They're also of the sort to be like, "are you going to get a real job one day?" I'm 27 now. I recently put into effect with myself that I have a ten year plan of I want to save as much money as possible so that I can buy a condo here in Astoria by the time I'm 37. That's my goal. I love it here so much. When I lived in Washington State I lived in four different towns there, and then I lived in Ventura California for a brief amount of time (I'm not a fan of California). And then in New York, much as I like Manhattan, when I came to Astoria it just felt like home. And even my hometown doesn't feel as much like home as this place. So I feel I could settle here, I could live my life here, be very happy here. I like the accessibility. Everything I could want is here in Astoria, or if it's not in Astoria it's a quick trip to Manhattan, or down to Coney Island (I like Coney Island). But so much is here in Astoria. I love going to the bowling alley and hanging out, I love playing pool, love the fact that my friends are all here, that there are comedy shows and open mic nights, and all the food you could imagine. People are so accommodating and friendly. I talk to my 85 year-old-neighbor downstairs in the bodega all the time. He's like "hey doll-face, how are you doing today?" Ron [roommate], he's been in Astoria for six years and he and I have been roommates for almost four years. We're amazed at all the condos popping up on 21st Street. It's changing around here, that's for sure. But it's good for a place to grow. And I pay $475, my roommates pay $575, we've been here for two years and the landlady is like we won't raise it for two more years if you guys stay. That's the thing about this area. There are a lot of old families. Her mom owns this building. Her brother in law owns the coin shop downstairs. That's still for me a big feeling in Astoria. In face all the three places I've lived in Astoria have been family-owned homes. That's a comfort, when you're not dealing with hundreds of tenants, a superintendent, a landlord who doesn't even know who you are. Also given we have the airport the buildings can't get too high. The more diverse it gets, it will still keep its culture. Walking around here you see how multi-cultural it is. As long as people continue to stay true to that, respect that, Astoria will stay the way it is now. Planet Fitness has lots of people muscle-building so people are not worried about their weight. It really accommodates to people in the neighborhood, heavy-set, not heavy-set, first time gym users, honestly, I really enjoy my time there. I get my daily workout just by being at work. I get paid to stay healthy and be fit. A lot of people get paid to sit behind a desk and then they have to work in time to do that. For me, I get paid to stay healthy. Then in my spare time I'm free to do my true pursuits which is writing and painting. 