Marie was born in Haiti and came to the United States as a minor. She has been living in Springfield Gardens since 1973. She takes pride in being a Haitian. Marie likes to educate and help serve her community. She has overcome her obstacles to achieve success in New York City.   00:00:40  Marie was born in Haiti in August 5, 1947.  00:00:55  Marie describes her life in Haiti. She had a nice life back in Haiti. She had five siblings and her mother was a housewife. Her father was a teacher. In summers they usually took vacations to Mirago‰ne. The beach made the family extremely happy.  00:02:10* Marie attended Catholic School of the Sisters of Wisdom. She met a pair of twin sisters there, and Marie thinks theyÕre from Canada. Then they went to different school. The twin sisters went to Saint Joseph of Cluny. And Marie went to Saint Louis school. On her second day of school, she had to leave Haiti. Her sister Julie was the first to leave to Canada. Then they all came to New York. Marie came to New York as a minor. Marie and her family immigrated to New York in August 3, 1968. She has been living in New York ever since. She lived in Ozone Park for five years when she first came to New York. She studied English at the old Jamaica High school which is in Hillside Avenue.   00:04:35     Marie and her sister attended a program led by Mayor Lindsay which was called The Men Power Training Program. She was supposed to be hired by a phone company, but she was rejected because of her accent. Then she got a job at Bankers Trust on Wall Street. After working for a while, she felt as if she needed to go back to school. Her husband returned from Peru in 1970. She applied to Columbia University and was accepted as a minority.   00:06:35     Marie says that she started working again. She describes her education history. She studied nursing at Long Island University and graduated in June 1981. She had her first son in Queens Hospital. She worked at Queens Hospital in labor and delivery for one year.   00:08:35*    Marie helped homeless people in New York. She worked with the health department. She took care of all the shelters in New York. She says that even though Haiti is a third world country, she has never seen the extreme poverty of New York back in Haiti. She says thereÕs a lot of poverty of the mind and the soul. ÒI always tell my children what I see, and I want them to be very careful not to become a statistic in the United States.Ó  00:10:13     She returned to the Queens Hospital to become the manager of specialty clinics. She had a training of being an interpreter at Queens Hospital. She also started teaching for Adelphi University.   00:12:26     She explains she will always love learning and teaching. She says that when she was coming to the United States, she was asked ÒWhy are you coming to the United States?Ó   00:13:25     MarieÕs currently teaching English in South Hollis. She says her skills of teaching are a lot better because of her education.  00:14:00     Marie is happy with her life in the United States. She notes that she couldÕve achieved more, but sheÕs still content. She had to overcome a lot of obstacles.  00:14:15     Marie describes her children and tells where they work and their education history.  00:15:40     She says leaving Haiti was a trauma back then, but now she looks at her accomplishments and she feels happy. ÒBe very careful not to fall for the pitfall of life in search of big city such as New York City.Ó Marie wants to keep growing doing voluntary work and helping her community.  00:16:56     Marie describes her fatherÕs life. Her father was scheduled to go to the 1938 Olympics in Los Angeles, but he wasnÕt chosen because of his skin color. Her father used to teach the poor in the country side of Haiti up to 8th grade.     00:20:30     She thought sheÕd never leave her country and spend her life outside of her country.   00:21:20     Marie now describes her mother. She was a housewife and took care of the family. She notes that most women didnÕt work back then.   00:22:05     She describes that her parents inspired her to work hard and be successful in life. Her parents gave her great education.   00:26:00     Marie and her husband divorced and her husband is currently retired in Chicago. Marie lives in New York City with her children.   00:27:02     She recalls her traditional life in Haiti. Marie says in Haiti everyone would be watching everyone and it would push the child to behave well, however in America no one cares so she had to put her children in Catholic school to teach them discipline.   00:32:30     MarieÕs father didnÕt want to come to the United States. He didnÕt feel comfortable with the United States because of his encounter with the American army in Haiti.   00:34:30     She describes that the people in Haiti are rigid, but in American people are more open.   00:37:21*    Marie lives in Springfield Gardens since 1973. She has been living in the same house. She lived in Ozone Park before. She bought the house in Springfield Gardens when she was twenty-seven years old. She loves Springfield Gardens because of its peacefulness and diversity. Multiculturalism is important to Marie because she gets to know people. ThatÕs the meaning of humanity to her.   00:41:00     She describes what Ôgood willÕ means to her. Marie mentions her good wills.   00:43:48     Marie wants to remain healthy and always be of service to the community. She wants to start exercising and enjoy life. Marie wants to specifically focus on yoga.   00:45:45     She talks about her husbandÕs love for Peru.   00:48:30     Marie says that Haitians are resilient and she has high hopes for the youth of Haiti.  00:51:30     She notes her love for Spanish music and it lifts her mood up. ÒI listen to the music of the world.Ó Then she proceeds to talk about her favorite musicians.   00:55:00     Marie describes herself as a confident and upbeat person. She doesnÕt want to be depressed or down. She loves life and she shows it. She likes to stay happy and energized.   00:59:00     She talks about politics surrounding Haiti. She believes Haiti is achieving success and in the future it will be a great country.  01:01:14     Marie talks about voodoo in Haiti. She notes that a lot people practice voodoo in Haiti. She says how voodoo came about Haiti. It came from the slaves of West Africa. She mentions that people in America practice voodoo as well. Marie says that voodoo is a natural religion and compares it to Hinduism.   1:11:20     She says if youÕre any other color than black then you can get something in life without education, but education is mandatory for black people because thatÕs the only thing that will allow them to get anywhere in life.   01:12:00     Marie describes her children. She mentions that her daughter is Americanized and went to live on her own, however her sons live close to her and theyÕre not Americanized.   01:16:00     She explains the origins of her last name.     