Raquel Bernal is a Colombian immigrant that came to the United States in 2005. In this interview she discusses her life in Colombia and her reason for coming to the United States. She discuss how she arrived to New York and the various tribulations she underwent working in tristate metropolitan area. She ends the interview with a message to all Latino Americans and the innate strength we have as Latinos living in the United States.   00:00:25  Raquel tells us that she is Colombian. She was born in Medellin but grew up in Periera which is in the Risalrada department of Colombia. (Colombia is divided into 14 departments which are essentially states or districts.)  00:00:50 Raquel discusses her job in Colombia. She had a good job in working for RisalradaÕs government. She had a son and lived pretty well in Colombia  00:01:05 She discusses the fact that she ran into some money problems while living in Colombia. She began to accumulate debt because she purchased a house and her son was about to start college and she was helping out her sister who was unemployed.  00:01:55 She felt that she was drowning under the weight of her. Her friend that worked with her in Colombia told her to move to the United States and that she would have a place to stay if she came to New York.   00:02:30 Raquel discusses how she applied for a visa through her job and she discusses that it was technically very easy to get a visa. She had many friends who obtained visas because they worked for the government. She came to the United States alone because she didnÕt want to interrupt her sonÕs studies.  00:03:07 Raquel details her original intentions of coming to the United States and that her vision was to only be here for five years and then return to Colombia. She thought she would obtain money she needed to pay off her debts. She then planned on returning to her family. She also stated she didnÕt want to stay in the United States without proper documentation.  00:03:50 She recalls having many people tell her how easy it was to get proper documentation. The usual method was to get married which resulted in obtaining residency papers immediately. Raquel explains that this was not the case and the truth of getting residency papers was an arduous process.  00:04:45 Raquel came with her visa and was first permitted a six months stay. She details her first impression of New York City. She goes into detail describing the airport she landed at and how Roosevelt Ave looked in Flushing, and where her friend lived.  00:05:44 Raquel details her account of the city as a person that came from the farm in Colombia. She explains that she didnÕt even realize how extensive New York City was until she went to Manhattan.  00:06:29 Raquel explains her first job in a restaurant as a cashier in Jackson Heights. She explains that the job was difficult because she was not accustomed to the fast pace movement in Queens.  00:07:55 She was overwhelmed at her new job but she preserved so she could send remittances to her family in Colombia  00:08:10 She recalls a funny story while she was working in the restaurant. She needed to make juices using a blender and because of her nerves. She put everything in the blender and forgot to close it and turned it on. She told the customer that the blender was broken and was afraid that sheÕd get fired. She laughs about that moment to this day 00:09:00 She discusses her coworkers and friends and that she was very excited to meet people from other countries. Before coming to American she had never met anyone that was not Colombian. She explains that she went from a small world to a massive world while living in Queens.  00:10:30 She discusses that she was amazed with the amount of money she was making while working here but didnÕt realize that living in New York is very expensive. She said that the rent was too expensive but that food you could find some type of food for cheap i.e. soup. 00:12:25 RaquelÕs friend told her that he obtained his residency papers within a year. He explained that he used to work in politics and the government and applied for asylum. So Raquel asked for asylum and obtained her residency paper because at the time Colombia countryside was plagued by guerilla warfare.  00:13:50 Raquel explains that she received her documents and ended up staying in the United States for twelve years. She also discusses that she wanted to learn English in order to get a job that was not so physically demanding.  00:14:40 She explains the barrier that she faced trying to find a job that didnÕt have someone that spoke Spanish. This was a barrier because she never practiced English because all her co-workers in Queens usually spoke Spanish so naturally they communicated in Spanish to each other.  00:15:50 Raquel explains her attempt to get a better education. She said that she went into a school that wouldnÕt give her any accreditation and realized that she was supposed to go to college. She was not happy about this situation but ended up studying in CUNY through government assistance.  00:17:30 She began working at a Colombian export business. (loosely translated) She handled various packages that people would either send or receive from Colombia. She explains that she learned a lot of new things while working in an office and met many different people while working there. She also explained that she wanted something more because she was being paid minimum wage 00:18:14 Before she worked for the export business she was unemployed for a while. She explains that she wanted to work in something better so she went to Long Island. She was told she could find a higher paying job. She had a friend out in Long Island that told her to come and that they would help her. 00:19:39 She said when she went out there she did not like it. She did not find a job while out there and she became very frightened about her responsibilities and her inability to send money to her son in Colombia. She explains it was a very hard time for her. She ended up returning back to Queens after three months out in Long Island. 00:20:30 Raquel returned to Queens to the room that she was subletting from another woman. However, when she returned she found out that the woman went to Colombia for a time and was not there to receive her. She was very distraught at this point because she came with no money and did not know where to sleep. 00:21:37 She began to think about the thought of being homeless and she began to pray. She looked for the woman and ended up talking to another person of the building. She recognized Raquel and told her that her landlady was not in New York. Raquel explained her situation to the neighbor who ended up offering Raquel a place to stay while she looked for work. 00:24:00 She began working at the export business and started paying the woman back. Although she was working at the export business she kept looking for another job. Her current boss promised a raise every year and after two years she was not getting a raise.  00:24:48 Raquel moved to New Jersey when she found a new job there. She worked at an archive working with to organize data following very strict protocols. Essentially she was working in data entry. 00:27:00 Raquel meets Sonia who is a person that Raquel admires. She came to New Jersey with Sonia and helped look for a room for them. She thought it was an adventure. They lived in Red Bank, New Jersey. 00:29:28 After four months the job in New Jersey told them to go home and that they would let them know when they can come to work. Raquel came back to Queens. She also explains that her old supervisor contacted her because he had a crush on her and asked her to return to work in New Jersey. Then he changed his mind and said there was no job.  00:31:40 She came back to New York and began working in a hotel as a maid for a couple of months. The hotel was new and told the cleaners that they were getting dropped because the hotel hired a unionized cleaning service.  00:34:00 Raquel then found another job in a check cashing business. She worked there for five to six years. She worked on a computer for most of her job. Her employer took away their employeeÕs chairs and Raquel ended up suffering from foot pains from standing for eight hours a day in the same position. Her heel still hurt to this day.  00:36:00 Raquel had to retire from the job because of her foot. She also tells us that this is around the time when she met her husband who is Mexican and a great person all around. They got married and she began to look for a job once again. She found a job in the same field as the check cashing business. This time she was allowed to have a chair.  00:41:00 Raquel discusses her emotions as she left Colombia and the fact that leaving her family was a hard decision to make. Her younger brother passed away while she was here in the United States. She wonders was it worth it leaving her family to come here  00:43:00 She confesses that sheÕs at a better place today than she was at the beginning of her time in the United States. However, she still asks if it is still worth being here because she lives so far from her family. She feels that the family is the most important and that is better to be together and to struggle together. 00:46:50 Raquel discusses how she misses Colombia and that sheÕll always love her home country. However, she missed New York when she was in Colombia and she explains that she has two lives and her heart is in two places at the same time.  00:50:55 Raquel discusses her current life and that her life is here in New York and that she will do what she can for her family in Colombia. But she feels that also has her own life here that she needs to focus on.  She wants to live life to the fullest with her husband and she discusses her time traveling to Puerto Vallarta, Mexico.  00:52:00  Raquel discusses the fact that her husband wants to stay here in the United States and that she wants to stay here and enjoy life while sheÕs here. 00:53:20 Raquel discusses her wedding and the fact that her family accepted it and were happy however, her son was not happy about the marriage. He is her only child so it seemed appropriate to be jealous of the wedding.  01:00:00 She discusses her various coworkers and friends she made throughout her time in Queens. She mentions that she has met people from various ethnicities and races, which she is very grateful.  01:04:10 She discusses the differences between New York City and her home town. She discusses that you need to live in another country in order to understand how different people live their lives.  01:06:00 She discusses the amorous character that Latin Americans live their daily lives. She feels that this is visible especially when it concerns families. She compares children from Latin American countries are being dependent on their families. In contrast children in the United States are raised to be more and are more independent.  01:14:00 She discusses how she feels about the fact that American children begin working at a very young age while other Latin America countries refuse to let children work at a such a young age. She believes that children should not be working. They should enjoy their childhood and study. She feels thatÕs children should start working when they are eighteen years old. 01:17:00 She discusses the cultural differences between a Colombian and Mexican, and why she did not marry a Colombian like she was advised to do. She tells the story of a Colombian boyfriend that became a complicated relationship. She doesnÕt feel a need to marry someone that is also Colombian. 01:36:00 She discusses that the people who come from Central American countries tend to be more humble and have a better attitude regarding life. She feels that others tend to be more agitated or quick to anger.  She feels that people need to be open to everyoneÕs culture and feelings.  01:41:00 She finishes her interview with her thoughts about immigrants, specifically with Central and Latin America. She discusses the way Latinos are unfairly treated and looked down upon. She feels that as a nation of immigrants it is time to unite and stand together against the discrimination that has been going on in the United States.      