Margaret was born in Dublin.  She attended school until age 13 and then worked in a knitwear factory, Viennese Knitwear Company.  She saved money and immigrated to the United States with help of her uncle.  She stayed for four months with his family in California and worked in Henshey’s department store.  She moved to New York, and after a year, her uncle also helped Margaret’s boyfriend immigrate to New York.  They were married and moved to an apartment in Woodside where they had two children, one of whom was born while visiting Ireland.  They had two more children before moving to Jackson Heights, where they attended Blessed Sacrament Church and had the two youngest children.  They eventually moved back to Woodside, but the couple moved to New Jersey after the children were grown to be near children and grandchildren.  00:00:17 Born in Dublin.  Attended school until 13, and worked as seamstress in a knitwear factory.  She immigrated to United States with uncle, after saving money and was first leave home on either SS America (or SS United States).  Met other immigrants on the ship and kept in touch with Jimmy O’Toole from Belleville, NJ.    00:01:49 Uncle went back to Dublin to claim Margaret’s boyfriend, Tommy Berry.   Margaret had a one room apartment on Greenpoint Ave, and her boyfriend stayed with Margaret’s cousin on 48th St. in Woodside.  They got engaged at Christmas and married at St. Therese’s in Woodside, then moved to a big apartment in Woodside.    00:02:35 Husband was drafted into Army.  Her sister was originally going to Canada, but came to NY instead because Margaret was expecting a baby.  Tommy had week off from the Army, and Margaret’s sister stayed.  Mother came to visit with sister, Rosaline, who was seven, and they stayed for a few months.  00:03:20 Margaret went to Ireland at Christmas while expecting her second child, she was supposed to return to the US before Christmas, but her brother died, and she stayed in Ireland for a few months.  Her son Eddie was born in Ireland, she stayed a few months, and Tommy didn’t see Eddie until he was a few months old.  00:03:44 The family moved to apartment on 45th St. in Woodside, and lived there for 6-7 years.  They had two more children and moved to Jackson Heights to Blessed Sacrament Church.  Youngest, John and Catie, were born in Jackson Heights at Elmhurst Hospital.  Boys attended McClancy High School, Marlene attended Mater Christi Diocesan High School in Astoria, and Catie attended Cathedral High School in New York City.  Margaret jointed Mothers’ Club and Rosie (?) Society.  00:04:59 Eddie went to New York College (NYU?). Timmy spent time at Columbia, but Timmy, Tommy, and Catie graduated from Fordham.  Marlene went to business school and eventually married.  Timmy and Tommy are married with three children each.  Catie married Matt Lockerton (?) from New Jersey, managed the Rangers.     00:06:45 Mother and father came for World’s Fair.  Sister Marie came to the US for honeymoon and stayed with sister, Claire.  Enjoyed life, attended Mothers’ Club once a month as a night out.  00:07:24 Moved back to Woodside then to New Jersey to be near children.  Enjoys home and garden.  00:08:24 Visited Ireland over the years.  Travels with family occasionally.  Worked at Viennese Knitwear Company near Trinity College.  Misses cycling in Ireland, and that’s how she met her husband.       00:10:30 Live in apartment near Royal Arts Academy, and could hear music and see musicians through the window.  Plays piano.   00:11:19* Worked for Jewish brothers who fled Austria and started factory in Dublin in 1949, they were good employers.  Margaret was taught by nuns at a girls’ school, she also learned to cook, read and write, dance, Latin, some Gaelic, and Catechism.  Prayed in school.  Some brothers were Irish speakers, others played soccer.    00:14:14 Went back to Ireland a few times, and eventually parents died.  Sister- in-law is a nun in the order of Sisters of Mary and Joseph and teaches at St. Augustine’s School in Culver City.  They stayed in a convent a few times in San Francisco and visited Alcatraz the Los Angeles area.    00:15:36 Everything is good.  Goes to sleep and thinks of children and grandchildren.  She represented youngest grandchild at Confirmation.    00:17:05 Always loved New York.  First lived with uncle in Culver City in west Los Angeles, and had a good job, relief girl at Henshey’s Department Store, where she worked elevator, candies, lingerie, and mezzanine.  Stayed for four months then moved to New York.  Manager, Patrick Klein, used to work at Clerys in Dublin.  