Thomas Berry was born and raised in Dublin, Ireland and came to Queens during the 40’s. He describes his experience enlisting in World War II. H moved around the neighborhood of Jackson Heights multiple times, and he describes the streets he used to live on in detail. He held various jobs as a super, a laborer, and as a bartender. He shares stories of growing up and going to school in Dublin. His family has an affinity for music, and Tom sings songs twice in the interview.   00:00:26 Tom describes his life in Ireland. Worked in blacksmith shop for 7 years, was let go because ship business was dying.  00:00:58 Already had plans to go to NYC to find work. Left on the SS America and landed in Brooklyn. Peg and Dinah (?) were already in NYC before him. Remembers getting off the boat wearing an overcoat on a hot day, was asked if he was smuggling anything. 00:01:43 Took a cab home to Jackson Heights (76 Street and Roosevelt) to stay with Dinah (?), moved to Sunnyside with another friend (Joe) until he found a job in Manhattan East 37th Street_. He worked there for a year until he was drafted into the War. 00:02:13 Describes the drafting process. He was processed at Fort Dix. Was stationed in South Carolina for a training program, and then sent to Fort McClennon in Alabama at a Chemical Warfare Center. Remembers training for chemical warfare situations, wore hazmat suits in different dangerous chemicals, and filmed a chemical training movie for overseas troops.  00:04:10 Met other Irish-American soldiers. Needed to be in the army for 3 years to gain full citizenship, was only in it for two. Trying to look for Johnny (film maker). Moved around the country for work. 1956 - didn’t have to go to Korea for the war. 00:06:15 Returning to Manhattan. Recalls meeting a stranger who bought him a beer because he was in uniform. 00:07:15 Return on Christmas Eve. Joe got him a job as an elevator man on Lexington, was there for a couple of years. 00:08:41 Met a man on Woodside Av from Dublin and he had an emerald isle company, worked for him unloading the truck, and doing chemical installations. 00:09:43 Talks about Peg before marriage; she worked at A&P while Tom was working with Joe. They met in Ireland before they came to NY before the 50’s, met in a club.  00:12:40 They got their first apartment around Christmas time on 46th street.  Felt comfortable with the super. He and Peg were married after 4 months in New York.  00:13:40 Describes the wedding. Describes the food Delia made for the wedding, was a great cook, and friends at the wedding.  00:15:50 Moved around Queens until they settled in Jackson Heights on 94th street, had 6 children, moved down the block for a bit.  Tom got a job as a super from Joe, describes his new job as a super.  00:17:40 Eileen asks if Tom met anyone in the neighborhood from Ireland, he responds no. Met people in the Galway Bay, in the bars, movie theatres, would go to the Jaegarhouse to meet with Irish people who just landed in Manhattan.  00:19:00 Eventually moved to Ridgewood, New Jersey where they live now. Have 11 grandchildren. Talked about where they are going to college. Talks about Colleen (grandchild) and her Soccer scholarship.  00:21:55* Life in Ireland growing up: Born and raised in Dublin. Talks about friends trying to find the house her grew up in, doesn’t exist anymore. Kate went to the Academy of Music and played piano in the 1940’s. Grew up with 10 siblings. Father  worked for a coal company. Always had a burlap sack when working. Also worked on the American ships during coal shipments. 00:25:49 His father was sick from the labor he did. Mother was distraught over her husband sickness. Found solace with her sisters (Tom’s aunts). Moved to Culver City after his father died. 00:27:11* School with his brothers: Went up to 8th grade which was typical at the time. He studied math, English, history, some Gaelic. Describes teacher’s appearance and mannerisms. Still remembers practicing the Gaelic alphabet. Loved to run, was picked to represent the school in a track meet, and came in second place. 00:30:15 Talked about school lunch. Government provided a bottle of milk and a cheese sandwich every day.  00:31:16 “Neighborhood was all kids and dogs.” Summer was good for playing around in the neighborhood. 00:31:45 Eileen asks what Tom misses most about Ireland. Talks about the struggle and homesickness of boarding in the barracks.  00:32:59 Had a stint as a bartender in Jackson Heights. Discussed the lineage of the bar managers, got a job for 25 years. It was the first bar to serve Guinness in Jackson Heights.  00:35:25* Brings up singing in the bar. Eileen asks him to sing for the tape. Sings Jonny Ray’s “A Little White Cloud That Cried” 00:37:20 Also played the harmonica, but lost it at his brother’s house. Brother played the piano, saxophone, fiddle, drums, and the accordion learned at Fairview.   00:38:54* Eileen asks how many siblings came to America. Two sisters, one is a nun. Lived in America for 2 years before they went back to Ireland to visit his mother, and never thought about going back to stay. Eileen asks what does he like best about living in New York? He answered that it is exciting. 00:40:36 Was part of organizations such as the Knights of Columbus. Remembers the office was next to Steven’s the department store. Marched in parades every year. Was the Guest of Honor for the Dublin Society in 1974, they used to meet in the back of the bar he worked at.   00:43:00* Eileen asks for a story from his days working at the Liffey (bar). Recalls a story when Sivonne McKenna (?) was a patron at the bar. Has a fake phone behind the bar and used to prank customers with it. Everyone used to sing at the bar once they had a few drinks in them. Talked about popular songs people used to sing. 00:45:00 Talked about the poetry about James Connelly, and Tom would play the Harmonica along with them. Recites a poem about James Connelly. Visited a prison that used to hold Irish rebels back home. 00:46:40 Eileen asks him to wrap up with a song from his childhood. He sang the montage at his children’s weddings. Asks Peggy to make a request because he can’t think of a song to sing. Sang the Steamboat Bill song he used to sing at the bar.  