Christopher grew up on a rural farm in the Irish country as the youngest of 7 sons. He immigrated to first Toronto to find work, and eventually moved to Queens to meet his brother who owned a bar in Ridgewood. Boles was a bartender for most of his life despite not enjoying the profession, he owned multiple bars in Ridgewood, Woodside, and Manhattan for a period of about 30 years. The interview describes the neighborhood of Woodside and the community of Irish-Americans living together and partaking in social events around the pub.  00:00:24 Christopher begins with describing life growing up on a farm, he born on a farm, and the youngest of 7 sons in Geevagh, Sligo County. Didn’t have electricity until 1956 and grew up without appliances. Had crops and animals on farm, milked cows for the dairy to pay for groceries.  00:02:15 School was “okay”. Two room school taught by women. Learned math. School was a mile and half away from the farm. He started school when he was 6 and stayed until 13. Learned some Gaelic.  00:03:50 Begins to talk about family. Father was from the same area he grew up in. Had one uncle who became an auctioneer in Dublin.   00:05:10 Eileen asks what prompted the move to the US, Christopher responds that it was the way of life. Everyone else was leaving. Left in 1954 to Canada because of a Uranium discovery, and decided it was way too cold to stay in Toronto. Came to North America by boat and train, wasn’t nervous moving over, remembers the train ride in January. Brother was already in NYC.  00:07:38 First impression of NYC: “not good”. Came to NYC in July for a week to visit his brother and it was too loud and too hot - “How could anybody live here”  00:08:16 Work in Toronto; Bus driver and street car driver. Saw no real difference between Canadians and Americans. Christopher said most Canadians were Scotch-Irish and has some prejudices.  00:09:25 Eileen asks how did he end up in New York. His roommates were all moving to America. Mentions the visa applications and the paperwork to live in the United States. Didn’t realize the visa is only good for 6 months and then it expires. Brother opened a bar in Ridgewood and he decided to work for him.  00:11:50 Has experience working in a bar - used to work in one at Belfast. He never liked bartending, enjoyed driving the bus more. Brother knew a man (O’Gare?) from Rockaway and used to work for him on the weekends, and he sold the bar in Ridgewood Christopher’s brother. Lived in the apartment upstairs from the bar. German woman owned the building.   00:13:40 A third brother came over to the America in 1956. Lived in Belfast began to worry about living in Ireland, decided to stay with Christopher, later brought his wife and children over and they never went back. The never planned to stay in America.  00:15:20* Asked what was it liked meeting all different people? Said it was interesting working in the bar. Never liked baseball, would get asked questions about the game. Socialized with other Irish immigrants in Ridgewood. Would go to Gilly Park? on Sunday. Had the odd girlfriend here and there. Would meet new people every day. Also went to the Dance Halls (City Center) on Sunday nights. Would dance Irish Waltzes. Sunday night was bartender night.  00:18:48 Met his wife at his bar in Woodside on 63rd Street. Was a room in the back for dancing with Irish music, Paddy was a fiddle player in his bar, and his wife Betty was a promotor, wanted a crowd to dance. There were a lot of Irish musicians in New York who wanted to meet Paddy, would come from all over the boroughs. His bar was called the Castle Lind and he owned it from 1957 to 1964.   00:22:20 Had an old car. At the gas station in Maspeth and met Jimmy Philbin a former detective and he told Christopher about the bar on sale, and later met another man at the Gaelic Park who was also selling the same bar. It was a dirty and dark place when he came to visit; he bought the place from the old man. Had some savings from Canada, paid half down and pay the rest month. This was called a note. He was still single when he bought the bar.  00:25:30 There were a bunch of Irish girls living in a house near the bar and that is how he met his wife. Move to Woodside on 67th Street after he bought the bar. Rent was 64 dollars a month! Moved to 64 Street after her was married.   00:26:50* The early days in the bar: “The Irish were coming here like flies”. Most of them worked in construction. Some came from England. Would come in and ask for work. Would often network people to work. Didn’t really tell new immigrants what to expect. Bad advice he received was to not to buy a house unless you can do your own repairs.  00:30:05 Had a horse training come in to do some exercises. Would get people asking about work with the horses.    00:31:10 The bar would open at 8am and would close at 4 am. Would meet different people with different temperaments. People changed on the full moon. Kicked a decent amount of people out of his bar. They weren’t dangerous, just “nothing going on upstairs.”  00:32:40 Missed his mother from Ireland, but was happy to be in the US. Took a trip back to Ireland 5 years in and didn’t know what he would do if he stayed. People from Ireland told Christopher that he changed. Two brothers moved to England and two stayed in Ireland. When he was 13 his family left him at a boarding school in Court? so he was used to not seeing his family, “hardened” him.   00:36:20 Gave up the bar at Woodside after he went to 3rd Ave 91st Street in Manhattan and bought a different bar which was close to a brewery for one year. After a year the brewery shut down. Business was not good after that.   00:38:20 Asked about women in bars. Men would bring their wives on Friday night, but that was it in Ridgewood. At Woodside, there were a lot of single girls came into the bar. Married women didn’t come in much. Sometimes it was hard for Christopher’s wife because of the hours he worked.  00:39:50 Owned the bar in Manhattan for 11 years, ended in 1976. The 70’s were bad years but they didn’t bother Christopher. People weren’t as neighborly as people are known. There was some pride in Irish-Catholics when Kennedy was elected president. Was behind the bar of Castle Lind when Kennedy was assassinated. Everyone at the bar mourned him.  00:42:50* The community at Woodside were mostly Irish, German, Italian. Everyone knew everyone at church. People were very proud to be American; there were a lot of veterans in the bar. When asked about his loyalties, played both sides of the fence; kept the Irish tradition with his children, three daughters and a son. Son is a firefighter in Jersey. One daughter in Wyckoff, New Jersey who has two sets of twins. Another daughter is in Rumson, New Jersey, with 3 boys and a girl. Another girl in Jersey is married. Said they didn’t give him any trouble when they were growing up.  00:47:00 Wife is from Donegal in Ireland, she came to American because she had aunts in Philadelphia. Grandchildren know about Ireland but they haven’t visited as much as his son. Christopher has no musical ability, his father played the violin and that side of him is showing in his son.  00:49:00 Asked about being a doorman: Said it was the best job he ever had, better than being a bartender. He could stand and walk around all day and he never got tired. 200 61st Avenue was where he worked. Would have the occasional odd tenant, but everyone was pretty nice.  00:50:20 Christopher doubts grandchildren would understand everything he’s been through to get to America. Worked on “the bog” until he was 16. A lot of people were moving to North Ireland to work so the government required a residence permit to live and work in Belfast. He was declined so he had to go back home to the farm. Said protestant got the good shipbuilding jobs over Catholics. Tried going back to Belfast, decide to not apply for a permit, but he was outed and had to move back after 3 months again.   00:54:30 Coal mine opened up, brother was recruiter to work there. Brother didn’t want this job, Christopher took it instead. Foreman didn’t know who was who, and he got the job. Lasted two months, It was terrible work; the commute was the hardest part to walk up the mountain. He was fired, someone else replaced him and he was only there for a week.   00:57:20 Asked what the worst part about bartending was; he said listening to people’s stories, and people coming in drunk. Money was scarce too, different from today. People would often not pay for drinks. Would ignore the worst customers. Made a lot of good friends during the bartender years. Had some good friends in Astoria, Jackson Heights, friends that worked in the airport, unfortunately a lot of them have passed.  00:59:40 Was in the AOH for a short time. Filburn ran it in Woodside. Wanted a Gaelic football team. Joined the Highbinders (?) Joined the Woodside (??) Chairman of the Dance, promoted the event, would get a crowd to come in, Raised 900 dollars to buy equipment for the football team. The manager wanted to the boss, would often fight with Filburn. Would often moderate the two. Others formed another football team called the Flushing Harps. Because Woodside was off the beaten track, Christopher would advertise often to get more patrons, which means meeting a lot of people.  01:03:00 Asked about what the bar looked like: There were big windows, decorated the tables and chairs. People smoked in bars back then. Christopher stopped smoking 20 years ago. A funny moment: different characters coming in. Never had any interactions with gangsters. A young man got into trouble; a guy almost threw a chair at him, was thrown out and then came back with a shotgun. Christopher locked the door in time. Someone took the keys from him and everyone in the bar ran after him to chase him off. He called the police; the man with the shotgun never came back to the bar. Terrible relationship with the police; would get tickets for little things all the time. Liquor license had to be renewed every year.  1:08:30 Was not sympathetic with any patrons. Belonged to the County Sligo organization, marched in the parade. More active now than when he was younger. Meetings are small; they get letters from people looking for donations. Don’t have a lot of money but try to help out.  1:10:15 Is happy he came to America. The best thing about America is he has always been able to work, never went hungry here, and you have the freedom to be able to do things for yourself. Changes in neighborhood: “nothing I can do about that”. Is happy they are keeping up. Still has neighbors he lived with in Woodside nearby. People are still coming over from Ireland. Was close with some of his neighbors.   01:15:15 Doesn’t remember much Gaelic from his schoolboy days. Used to be good at it.  Parents didn’t speak it.  01:17:15 Wanted to travel more. Regrets he didn’t try his luck working for some bigger companies. Maybe try con Edison or telephone companies. Didn’t make much money at the beginning, so that’s why he never tried.  01:19:12 Wishes his children and grandchildren to be educated and to get the best jobs and raise a family. “Keep the party going.”  