Janeth Toral (JT): My name is Janeth Toral and I am a beauty consultant with Mary Kay Ð beauty products for men and women.  They are cosmetic products.   Julia Bravo [JB]: I am a crossing guard on 14th Street and 29th Avenue.  My name is Julia Bravo.   JT: This work is to get some income together to help support my children, to help.  Because thereÕs hardly enough to do that.  I help my husband do that.  We are here, he is in Ecuador.  Four of my children are here.  With this economy, this business isnÕt going so well, but weÕre coping.   IÕve lived here 19 years.   JB: And IÕve lived here 49 years.  JT: I lived for one year in Corona.  I didnÕt like it because it was very noisy, with a lot of loud music.  Here it is a bit more peaceful.  Of course thereÕs still a problem here or there, but we manage.  There are people youÕd rather not be here.  But Astoria is a very good place to live.   JB: ItÕs very expensive.  The prices are going up.   JT: The good things it has are Astoria Park, the park for dogs, the swimming pool.  The schools.  The post office, small shops, places for food, everything.   JB: All my family is here.    JT: My mother, two children, my aunts, three brothers, sisters, nephewsÉmost of them are in Ecuador.  My most happy memories?  The birth of my children.  And the other would be to see all of them graduate.  The daughter here is in high school, another in kindergarten.    JB: Mine are married.  They are in the army.  They are in Afghanistan.  We can communicate with each other though quite well.  I enjoy looking after small children.  The neighborhood is good, the people who live here are good, the problem is when people from outside come through to cause trouble.  They call me the grandmother of the neighborhood.    JT: WeÕve known each other since my 13 year-old son was in pre-kinder.  He always asked Ôwhen are we going to see my grandmother?Õ and I said Ôno, sheÕs not your grandmotherÕ and he would say Ôbut yes, she is my grandmother.Õ  Before we lived on 28th Street.   When we came to live near here about 5 years ago he said ÔI want to go and hug my grandmotherÉthough now I know that sheÕs not really my grandmother!Õ  JB: Children are loving.  They say Ôhelp me crossÕ.  ItÕs good, because you help the children and the parents thank you.  ItÕs satisfying.  I do this 12 months a yearÉthere are summer classes too.  ItÕs not only young people crossing but also older people.    One time a car hit me and hurt my leg, a taxi, four years ago.  I got the children across and then it hit me.  Here there arenÕt traffic lights.   JT: There are lots of accidents here.  ItÕs one way, they come down and crash over there.   JB: The children who cross the street are Hispanic, South Asian, black, Irish, Argentinean, from all overÉChineseÉeverything.  But they are the same, they are children.  The ÔgringitosÕ live mainly on 12th Street. 