Carol Lang Brock was born in Corona but spent most of her childhood in Beechhurst. After graduating from Queens College with a degree in home economics, she began a highly successful career in food journalism that included positions with Good Housekeeping magazine, Parents magazine, the New York Daily News and the Queens Times/Ledger. She and her husband eventually bought a home in the Douglas Manor section of Douglaston, where she still resides today. Carol’s memories from her earliest years are filled with references to food and gardening, two important subjects that helped shape her career and influenced her experiences of life in Queens. 00:00:14 Carol was born in Corona in 1923 but moved with her family to Beechhurst when she was 3. Her father was in real estate and built four homes there on former farmland. The homes were Tudors that were designed by an architect who had also designed homes in Forest Hills. 00:02:30 When Carol got married [1944], she and her husband moved to an apartment in Sunnyside. They wanted to live in the Sunnyside Gardens neighborhood but nothing was available; she remembers strolling through the gardens with her young son. During this time she worked for Good Housekeeping magazine.  00:03:36 Beechhurst was still rural when Carol was a child. She remembers a cow grazing near her home and that one of her neighborhood friends had a pony. Her friend’s housekeeper sometimes made her cinnamon toast. This friend’s father was a teacher at Flushing High School, and Carol would trade hunting souvenirs from her own father for marking books that she would use when playing school. 00:05:55 Carol went to P.S. 79 in Whitestone. She won a prize there for baking a daffodil cake, and made her own organdy graduation dress. Her grandmother had been a seamstress, and her mother went to millinery school – she could make copies of the hats she saw in Fifth Avenue store windows. 00:07:30 She later attended Bayside High School and walked about 2 miles to get there. Carol intended to go to Cornell after graduating but wound up enrolling at Queens College because her mother was friends with Judge [Charles] Colden, a founder of the school. It “turned out to be the right decision.” She graduated in three years in September 1944, the same month in which she got married, and started working in November [at Good Housekeeping]. 00:09:07 Carol had thought she’d be a housewife after marrying but her professors, along with her mother and husband, encouraged her to use her education “out in the world.” She had difficulty applying for magazine jobs with no experience, but got an interview with Good Housekeeping. Two of her Queens professors – Margaret Gram and Eula B. Corbin – wrote letters on her behalf, and she got the job of assistant food editor.  00:10:40 Part of her job at Good Housekeeping entailed making lunch every day for the editor, Herbert Mays, and the head of Hearst Corp., Richard E. Berlin, in exchange for their teaching her the magazine business. She had her first published byline about six months after getting the job. 00:11:25 Carol stayed at Good Housekeeping for 23 years and then became food editor of Parents magazine. She continued to make luncheons throughout her years at Good Housekeeping and entertained many distinguished guests, including former President Herbert Hoover, the Duke of Windsor, the president of Mexico and the head of the state of Israel. 00:12:52 When she had been at Good Housekeeping for 10 years, Carol decided to pursue a master’s degree from New York University, which she received in 1963. As an undergrad at Queens, she had also taken three courses at Columbia University – one in magazine writing with [Prof. Ernest] Brennecke, one with food writer Mary Barber, and one in contemporary civilization with a Prof. Clark, which Carol felt helped her write a strong thesis for her program at Queens. For her Home Economics major at Queens, she had to take chemistry and physics classes. One semester, she had a chemistry class at 8 am on Thursdays and often fell asleep in class because Wednesday night was “date night” and she was usually out late bowling. 00:16:15 Carol says she did well in her cooking classes because of her early experiences with her grandmother, who grew vegetables and made cheese from her home in Beechhurst. The family also bought bags of potatoes from Long Island in the fall and stored them in a cold cellar. She remembers one intersession class at Queens when the Home Economics students took over the dining hall and prepared food for the faculty. Carol wanted to create a table setting featuring a live goldfish in a bowl, but chemistry professor [Roland] Whittaker said it would be too distracting for the diners. Her experience serving these meals gave her a respect for restaurant wait staff – it is not an easy job.  00:19:38 For her own lunch at Queens, she most often grabbed a peanut butter sandwich and an apple from the lunchroom on her way to class. The Home Ec department was in a small, two-classroom building near the cafeteria. 00:20:45 As a student, Carol was president of the Home Economics Club. She thinks she was the first alum to join the Alumni Association. Years later, she took a class in belly dancing at Queens and tried tap dancing as well. 00:24:45 Carol’s grandmother had a house in Fresh Meadows, built by her uncle, a civil engineer. She remembers rabbits in the compost piles and especially the presence of a summer kitchen and garden. Later on in Beechhurst, her grandmother had a large garden and still planted corn at the age of 80. Carol’s childhood home was only two blocks from the water; she recalls a friend’s home being demolished when the Cross Island Parkway was built. 00:27:31 Carol’s father was a hunter and fisherman; they had a small boat that they took out in the bay. When Carol was dating her future husband, Emil Brock, he would go eeling with her father in Little Neck Bay. Carol always loved eels and as a child, picked out the “squiggliest” one to be cooked. She and her husband had an outdoor fireplace to smoke eels. Carol vividly remembers getting smoked eel sandwiches from the automat in Amsterdam the first time she and her husband travelled to Europe.  00:30:08 Carol’s father took her to Fort Totten [in Bayside] as a child to watch boxing matches held among the soldiers stationed there. She was an only child. 00:32:06 Carol and her husband looked at a number of neighborhoods in which to buy a home and decided on the Douglas Manor section of Douglaston. It is a landmarked community; the home of [William] Douglas, first winner of the America’s Cup, is there and is now the Douglaston Club. There is great interest in sailing and trees in the community. The Douglas family had trees brought from all over the world by [landscape architect Samuel] Parsons. Near where the Brocks bought their home, there was a 600-year-old white oak as well as a windmill, which was later moved to the Alley Pond Environmental Center. 00:35:15 The Matinecock tribe has history in the area; Carol remembers attending the 100th birthday celebration of Chief Waters shortly after moving to Douglaston. There is currently a proposal to have a commemorative marker for the tribe on the site of his house. There are Matinecock graves in the cemetery at Zion Episcopal Church, which Carol attends. 00:37:09 Carol wrote an article for the Sunday Daily News about Thanksgiving traditions featuring Princess Heatherflower [Chief Waters’ daughter], including her recipe for cranberry bread. The Princess also judged the Native American costumes at an annual Boy Scouts’ gathering in Douglaston, in which Carol’s sons participated.  00:38:46 Because Douglas Manor is landmarked, no “McMansions” have been built there as in other neighborhoods. Unfortunately, many trees on private property were not protected and have been cut down. All homeowners must belong to the Douglas Manor Association; dues ae $650 per year. There are fewer birds coming in the spring now since so many old trees have been lost. Ethnically, there are more Asian families moving into the community. The Manor has a clean-up day every April, followed by a buffet lunch, among other neighborhood events. Carol feels the newer Asian residents do not participate in these activities and worries about the future of the Manor community. 00:44:19 Carol attended both the 1939 and 1964 World’s Fairs in Flushing Meadows, as well as the International Expo in Montreal in 1967. She thinks the (1964) Fair “brought fine dining to New York City.” Many chefs who came to direct the food operations at the international pavilions stayed in Queens after the event. After leaving the Daily News, Carol worked as a restaurant consultant; one client was a restaurant on Northern Blvd. in Bayside that was run by the man who ran the Spanish dining facility at the Fair; it is still there today (Marbella).    00:48:20 Of all the New York restaurants Carol has visited, her favorite is the Four Seasons – “it is so New York.” She recalls a party given there by Good Housekeeping in honor of its food editor, Dorothy Marsh, who had worked there 50 years. Glass bricks were placed over the pool to create a dance floor, and a Four Seasons employee walked around with a screwdriver to keep the bricks tightly in place. 00:50:06 Carol’s grandmother had an “avant garde” garden – cranberries, herbs such as oregano and bay leaves, etc. As a little girl, Carol would make mud pies there and decorate them with flowers. She recalls gathering flowers that grew in empty lots in Beechhurst to make bouquets on Mother’s Day. Beechhurst is much more built up now but Carol still goes there in the summer for movies and for the Parks Department’s walks to Bayside Marina.   00:53:50 Carol has been very happy living in Queens and loves its ethnic diversity. She enjoys travelling to Manhattan via public transportation and remembers open-ended trains in her youth, as well as the trolleys that ran in Flushing. She reviewed Queens restaurants for the Times/Ledger for 13 years and enjoyed eating “food from all over the world” so close to home. 00:55:55 Years ago, Flushing had open fields and farmhouses. Carol’s uncle used to run his beagles along Little Neck Bay, where the Cross Island Parkway is now.  00:57:55 Carol hopes the history of Queens will be recorded so that its special characteristics can be preserved. While at the Daily News, she wrote often about Douglaston; it has had many interesting residents, including [tennis stars John] McEnroe and Mary Carillo.  01:00:48 Although television has the “glamour” today, magazines had it when Carol started her career, and Good Housekeeping was at the pinnacle. The magazine had its own testing laboratory, test kitchen, beauty clinic, etc., and employed many women with home economics educations, like Carol. She says many men in the advertising department from that time went on to become publishers – it was a very exciting time. Working for the Daily News was also fascinating. 01:04:55 While working for the Times/Ledger, Carol was coordinator of culinary classes for the Great Neck Adult Education program. Until the beginning of this year, she was also special events coordinator for the program. 01:05:54 During her time at the Daily News, Carol founded Les Dames d’Escoffier, a professional organization for accomplished women in the food, wine and hospitality fields, who had previously been excluded from all-male Escoffier groups. It began in 1976 and now has 30 chapters – including one in London – and 2,000 members. A member of this group is president of the Milano 2015 Universal Exposition; another is president of the James Beard Foundation. Les Dames is also very strong in providing mentoring, scholarships and awards to support women in the field. 01:10:50 One of the reasons Carol and her husband settled in Douglaston was its proximity to her mother in Beechhurst. Also, it was important to her as a working mother that her children could easily walk to school and other points of interest. Community clean-up days, yacht races, ecumenical Thanksgiving services – “Douglaston did everything right!” 