During over 30 years as a Queens resident, Carolyn Brown has become actively involved in her community through her local church and believes that each individual person can make a difference. She discusses growing up in segregated Washington, DC; her first encounters with other races and cultures, how they got to know each other ; experiences at St. Johns College and Howard University and the diversity she is happily surrounded by now in her neighborhood of Briarwood, NY.  00:40- Discusses her childhood growing up in Washington, DC. Her religious family roots and being the second black student in her college. Washington, Dc was very segregated and interaction with white people did not really occur until college.  09:00- Was the council president of church for 3 years, on the community Board, part of sorority ‘Delta Sigma Theta’ which is black women who are college graduates, co-chair of the social action committee. 11:00- Established a once a month group meeting which included discussion and cultural foods with 4 co-workers. Volunteers with Travellers Aide, which helps people new to the country become oriented with transportation, local food, hotels or any general information needed. 16:00- Made particular effort to learn about the other foreign black students that were met in college. Joined the Queens General Assembly and learned even more about diversity of her community, the differences and yet the ‘sameness’ of each other. 21:00- Moved to Brooklyn in 1963, then moved to Bayshore. Member of Lutheran Church of the Redeemer in Flushing, Queens ever since. Sings in the choir, part of African American Lutheran Association(AALA) which is now African Descent Lutheran Association(ADLA)  and secretary of the local group. 24:30- Has lived in the same building for 23 years and has watched the building go from mostly white with few blacks, to a larger Hispanic and Asian population. Has been on the advisory committee for the Briarwood shelter since it began and has tried to bring the shelter and other activities together. 