Josephine Caputi emigrated from Italy to the United States in 1966 when she was twelve years old. Her family moved to the United States to seek medical treatment for Josephine’s sickness which affected her hips.   (00:34)  Josephine remembers spending a lot of time with family in Italy. Her family owned a farm, but food was still scarce.  Times were difficult, but she feels that her parents did the best they could.  (02:00)  Josephine's aunt and uncle already lived in the United States, and they decided to sponsor her family. Moving to the United States was the best option for her family. Her mother was a little upset about it, but they knew it was a good decision. Josephine and her family immigrated in 1966.  (03:40)  Another reason why Josephine and family moved to the United States was because she had a sickness that affected her hips. Her family sought medical attention in the United States.   (04:51)  Josephine remembers feeling scared and nervous about moving to another country. She feared the unknown and not knowing the language. She recounts her experience of spending the first year of her life in the United States in the hospital and how difficult it was to not understand her doctors. She was able to pick up English in the hospital.  (05:48)  Josephine and her family came to the United States via a passenger ship called the S.S. Constitution. She recalls the experience as exciting, enjoyable, and very much like a vacation. She recounts the ship’s swaying and the passengers getting seasick. She discusses her experience of seeing the Statue of Liberty for the First Time. Her family brought a trunk and brought many items with them, including household goods.  (08:31)  Josephine and her family first settled in Flushing on 41st Road with her relatives, who were also her sponsors. She feels as though she missed out on a lot as a child because she spent quite a bit of time in the hospital. However, she remembers playing tag, jack, and Barbie dolls. She feels like she adapted quickly, but remembers how Americans did a lot more in terms of celebrations that felt very strange to her.  (11:32)  Josephine remembers there being other Italian immigrants who lived around her in Flushing, and they were extremely helpful. Her aunt was instrumental in helping her with her doctor's appointments.  (12:44)  Josephine recalls school as a positive experience. She attended P.S. 20 in Flushing. The school was helpful in getting her medical attention. She then attended a school for disabled children because of her surgery. She then attended 189 on Sanford Avenue.  (14:14)  Josephine never felt alienated because she was an immigrant.  Queens was like a culture shock in terms of the diverse foods that she was met with.  Although she did well assimilating, she feels as though she and her family held on to a lot of their Italian culture. She still feels as though she still gravitates towards her Italian side despite being American.  (17:25)  Josephine believes that her parents made the best decision by coming to the United States. She thinks that she would have been permanently disabled if not for the medical attention she received in the United States.   