Manuela Ciotti lives in Denmark. However, she came to New York City to complete her Modern Contemporary Arts of India project, which she has been working on for 5 years now and the “After Midnight” exhibition In Queens Museum, marks the end of her research. During her temporary stay; she has been living in Harlem, Manhattan since the end of February 2015. Despite visiting the big apple multiple of times, this was her first time venturing into Queens. As a result, she had to learn how to take the train, from Manhattan to Queens and become familiar with Queens.  

00:00:14	talks about living in Denmark, where she works. However, she came to New York City because of her research, and has been looking at the “After Midnight” exhibition, in Queens Museum. 
 
00:00:37	has been living in New York since the end of February 2015.

00:00:46	explains how the Paramore archive was a way for her to visualize New York and become more familiar with different areas of New York City. For instance,  she lives in Manhattan, so she had to learn how to take the proper transportation from Manhattan to Queens, in order to visit the Queens Museum. 
talks about almost completing her project, regarding the Modern Contemporary of Arts in India. Additionally, she is looking at exhibitions which have occurred in different contents. The “After Midnight” exhibition is actually the last chapter of this project. 

00:02:10	was interested in the study of India and soon became fascinated with Contemporary arts, that were circulating out of India, in different places. Furthermore, she wanted to know what happens, when art circulates around different continent.    


00:02:56	Lives in Harlem, Manhattan and travels to Queens and finds the journey to be interesting. 

00:03:36	considers that New York City can drain a person’s energy. While she is used to living in big cities such as, London and India. However, she finds New York to be harder to navigate, from a logistical perspective and believes that living in New York is Intense. 

00:05:10	Loves listening to the music in the subway and the department stores as well. Nevertheless, she was really shocked to find out the price of museum admissions, which is $25, so she wonders how ordinary individuals can visit the museum

00:06:53	Dislikes the striking differences between the class spectrum and the extreme poverty that she had noticed on an everyday basis, especially on the subway, compared to the wealth in the city.

00:09:40	talks about living in Bronx and Brooklyn during her previous visits to New York and explains how this was her first time visiting Queens.



00:12:26	explains how she mostly spends her time at the museum in Queens. However, she did visit “Little India” once and was quite surprised to see different communities living together such as: Pakistanis, Indians, and Bangladeshi’s.

