00:00:24:  Born in Puerto Rico, moved to East Harlem when he was a year old, attended public school, lived in Queens for twenty-seven years in Jackson Heights.   00:01:12:  Growing up with Puerto Rican parents during the 1970s and 80s, describing Harlem during this time period, the community, and Jackson Heights’ cultural diversity.   00:02:47:  Jackson Heights’s community believes in the betterment of the community, gearing towards the family life.    00:04:06:  Is part of the Queens Pride Lions Club, gives a brief overview of the different chapters around the world. Queens was the fourth to charter. The club was originally created for retired gay men. 2009 was the first time to become co-gendered. They focus on hearing loss and participate in cleaning campaigns, vaccines, river blindness. They are an apolitical organization, do not want to be politicized, wanted to come together as LGBT people and serve their community regardless of politics and religion. They have been together as five years now as a club.   00:07:41:  Became involved with the Lions Club, when had donated a digital vision assistance device to a library where Michael was working. Local representative had sent out word for volunteers into Lions Club   00:09:40:  Has avoided activism, would not consider himself as an activist, but is attentive to political news   00:11:00:  Michael explains the origins of Queens Pride and its difference from Greenwich Village Pride, starting in response to the murder of Julio Rivera’s in 1990 in Jackson Heights, and the unresponsiveness of the police’s racial profiling and the community’s response. Discusses New York City Pride at Stonewall, the acceptance of LGBTQ community and compares to the solemnity of Queens Pride.   00:14:15:  He talks about growing up in Queens; how his mother had moved him in a day from Harlem when he was 10 years old and adjusting to living in the new community.    00:16:11:  Discusses hanging out in gay bars in Jackson Heights when he was 17 years old, getting a sense of meeting others and losing a history. Michael reflects on the stories of passed LGBTQ people and the need to preserve their histories and experiences. He wishes that older gay men find can find avenues to share their memories through collective action.   00:21:00:  Michael talks about the vanity in society, as a way of also preserving gay history.    00:22:45:  Talks about parents who divorced once they arrived to New York, their retirement, and whether he would ever live anywhere else beyond the city. Feels the need to find his place and set roots. Also talks about how he and his husband met.   00:25:17:  Talks about his time spent in Rome, tells a story about dealing with the Italian mailing system and how it took him six days to receive a package of cereal sent from his mother.   00:28:00:  Talks about members of his community that he admires, such as Jimmy Van Bramer’s work in the city council with education, the director of the Queens Pride House, Pauline Park.   00:29:44:  Speaks of the need to helping people can manifest in different ways either in politics or charity and feels that one-on-one help is more helpful.   00:31:00:  Discusses the constant changing of New York City that it can change even if one leaves for a few days and that it is alive. Reflects that gentrification is a torn issue for him as a recent homeowner. Michael would rather work with the community in Jamaica to improve the quality of life.    00:33:40:  His favorite fountain is of a water nymph on 103rd Street in the Conservatory Gardens.   00:35:10:  He and his best friend celebrated their 30th year friendship anniversary, tells of how they met in kindergarten in a line to play for Legos. Group of friends are those he knew from growing up in East Harlem.   00:36:47:  Talks about his experiences with an alternative elementary school that focused on involvement. These types of schools did not survive into modern day due to overcrowding and lack of understanding the school’s philosophy and teaching style. This learning style though did not hold over into more traditional teaching, discusses his adjustment to learning in college.    00:41:45:  Went to the alternative school on recommendation of family members. School was built around designing curriculum different types of learners.    00:43:30:  The school would organize a joint curriculum with other classes and grades. Michael recalls the fifth grade and talks about school lessons for rivers and bridges. The school took them on a 10-day field trip through New England to learn about rivers and bridges. He believes in the usefulness of taking students outside of the city and seeing a lesson first-hand.   00:47:20:  Michael lived with his mother in East Harlem with his siblings while his father lived in Chicago. He would visit his father from when he was six years old until he was seventeen years old. He would take a bus from Queens directly to Chicago a few weekends of the month. Visiting his father felt odd to him, because of the minor differences between Chicago and New York.    00:50:30:  Michael says the city as monster that needs to be fed and the need to keep community together.  