Antonina (Nina) Cucchiara emigrated from Italy to the United States in 1966 when she was thirteen years old. Her journey began in Brooklyn, but continued onto neighborhoods in Queens. She has spent her life being a mother, sister, wife, and educator in the Queens / Brooklyn Catholic school system. Family is a central theme throughout her interview.  (00:46) Nina Cucchiara was born in Sicily, Italy. She describes her life in Italy as a happy and comfortable. Nina’s mother was depressed because her mother (Nina's grandmother) was living in the United States. This made their family life difficult as Nina was often in the care of relatives. Her mother's sadness is major reason why the entire family chose to immigrate to the United States. She goes on to tell her grandmother's story of being born in Nashville and moving to Italy where Nina's mother was born.  Her grandmother moved back to the United States, leaving Nina's mother alone in another country. She then details life in Italy and her father's decision to move to the United States.  (04:59) Nina discusses the immigration process; obtaining passports and vaccinations. Her father was unhappy about his choice to move to the United States; however, he wanted his wife to be reunited with her mother. Her father always planned to return to Italy. Although not pleasant, the immigration process ran smoothly for her family. They came to the United States by passenger ship called the Cristoforo Colombo. She details her experience on the ship. Their passage took place in March from March 9th to March 21st 1966.     (08:21) Nina was happy to arrive in the United States and to meet family that she had never met. Her mother was excited to be reunited with her mother, but her father was not happy. They settled in East New York, near their family, in a fully furnished apartment. Her father refused to unpack. She discusses her experience in her new country including registered for school and her feelings about attending school. She was fearful of her new surroundings.  (11:37) Nina recounts how her grandmother decided to move after her daughter's immigration to the United States. This prompted Nina's father to move the family out of East New York and to Ridgewood, Queens. She remembers how Ridgewood was filled with other Italians and how her family became more comfortable in their new surroundings.   (14:03) Nina discusses her experiences with learning English. She recalls her time in school and her experience being the only Italian girl in her class. No one was able to help her learn English, and so she had to rely on herself. Once she transferred schools, she met more recent Italian arrivals and had a much easier time learning English. Her mother and sisters learned English, but her father refused to learn the language, as he always felt he was going to return to Italy.  (18:38) Nina discusses her first return to Italy which happened forty years later. During her trip, she learned a troubling and sad story about her family's past that may have contributed to her mother' depression. She had a brother who died that she and her siblings knew nothing about.  (27:29) Nina remembers the concept of kids playing in the street in the United States as something very new to her. This was especially a shock with all of the cars in the street. Because she lived in a predominantly Italian neighborhood, she didn’t experience that much culture shock. She recounts the riots that broke out after the assassination of Martin Luther King Jr. She discusses the rift between blacks and whites.  (30:15) Nina remembers how she and her siblings wanted to be more like other American teenagers, but her father remained very traditional and strict.  They were only allowed to speak Italian at home when their father was home, but her mother enjoyed listening to her children speak English. She felt very torn between two different cultures. She discusses traditions and festivals, particularly the celebration of St. Joseph's Saints Day.  (35:40) Nina met her husband through friends and remembers her difficulties of trying to date while living in a traditional, Italian household. She tells about their marriage, her children, and her now grandkids.    (39:36) Nina didn't work when she first had her children, but volunteered at her kids' Catholic School. She organized games during lunch, and the principal asked her to fill a position as a gym teacher. She tells her experience of teaching gym for the first time and how she permanently became a gym teacher in the Diocese of Brooklyn schools for 25 years. She taught at Miraculous Medal, Mount Carmel, St. Michael's, and then Notre Dame Catholic Academy (formerly Miraculous Medal).  (48:37) Nina discusses how being an immigrant shaped who she is because she knows about a different way of life. She appreciates family, work, and health. Family is a central part of her immigration experience.  (49:56) Nina details how she decided to become an American citizen. She substituted an American history class and noticed the lesson about the benefits of being an American citizen. She was inspired from this lesson and decided to apply to become an American citizen.  51:51 Nina wraps up the interview with the funny anecdote of how her father came to own their home in the United States. He purchased their first family home for eight thousand dollars. Their home was a multi-story building located on 1873 Greene Avenue, Flushing.    