My name is Frank DePaola and we are in Sorriso Salumeria.  WeÕve been here for 33 years, and we specialize in hard-to-get items.  Cheese, fresh-baked breads, sausages, meats, whatever you need.  I was born in Calabria.  I came over here when I was eight years old and have been here ever since.  We moved to Long Island and then we came here to Astoria.    It used to be quiet [this part of the street] until I got here!  We support each other.  We have the bakery, the liquor store, and we all support each other.  Most of them have [been here as long as we have].  I have importers that we use.  Sometimes people want a special item and I ask them to bring it in for me and they do.  NothingÕs hard to get anymore.  ItÕs actually easier to get stuff from Europe than it was 10 years ago.  Everything is computerized, everything is faster, it doesnÕt take as long to approve labels and everything.    My personal food favorite food here has got to be a homemade mozzarella.  YouÕll have to try some.  We make it every hour.  We also do a lot of catering, a lot of prepared foods as you saw.  We have a whole showcase-full.  If someone walks in off the street and needs a piece of lasagna, a couple of meatballs, we put it together, you know.  Our catering is really good, we do a lot of catering.  We do parties, we do Kaufman Studios, we do Silver Cup.    WeÕve been here 33 years.  My wife doesnÕt work here with me.  Better that way!    For some customers IÕm on my third generation.  Yeah.  I have the grandparents, and the kids coming here and now the kids are coming here with their kids.  ItÕs nice to see people grow, and have their own families.  ItÕs rewarding.    Not yet! [nothing that find a challenge so far].  I love this business so I donÕt consider it coming to work every day.  I love food, and I love everything about it.  And I love creating food.   The Italian community here used to be bigger. TheyÕve gotten older, theyÕve moved away, some went back to Italy, some left us.  But we do have a lot of their children here now coming with their children.  And we also have an influx of younger people moving into the neighborhood Ð 25, 35 years old, young professionals.  They know good food, they love good food, theyÕve been brought up on the food network so they already know what to expect when they come in to buy something.    Especially with the computerÉpeople know where to come.  Like weÕre on Yelp, so that guy who was just here, he was going to the airport, and he typed in Italian food and we came up.  He was from Texas and he was on a layover.  And thatÕs happened quite a few times.    So everything is faster than I remember it years ago.  As my son says, ÒDad itÕs the computer age.Ó  I mean IÕm not a computer guy.  But yeah, absolutely [it helps the business].  Twice as fast.   WeÕre open seven days a week.  IÕm off on Wednesdays and the rest of the time IÕm here.  So I give a lot to the store.  190%.  ThatÕs why IÕve been here so long because IÕm on top of everything.  You have to be.  I mean I can leave, my sonÕs with me now, he just finished college so heÕs with me now.  So I can relax just a little bit.  But IÕm doing something else!  ItÕs like when IÕm off, IÕm out getting stuff, or IÕm going to the bank, you know itÕs always something.    I havenÕt been back to Italy since IÕve been here.  But I do plan to do that.  It was 1966 we came.  I could leave seven to ten days but IÕm so attached I canÕt leave!  My wife says IÕm crazy, but itÕs my passion, I love it.  This has been my dream, soÉwhy not?  