My name is Marcy Dermansky, IÕm a writer, and weÕre at the Athens cafŽ on 30th Avenue.   I donÕt plan my novels all that much or work with an outline.  I just work really hard for a long period of time and write what comes into my head.  I used to have a daily writing schedule and a writing office and a plan.  Since I now have a seventeen month-old daughter I donÕt have a process right now.   But IÕm hoping to get one.  If I have a lot of energy at night when sheÕs asleep I might write at night, but I donÕt do anything on a regular basis any more.  So far I feel like I havenÕt done anything all that wrong [representing a two year old accurately before having a child of her own, in the novel Bad Marie].  I think if I were writing it now I might not feel as much sympathy towards the Marie character, because she does something so bad [run away with the child sheÕs looking after].   People make jokes about my babysitters running off with Nina Ð and well, [you donÕt find them so funny?] NoÉSo I think maybe it would have been harder to write her if I had had a child of my own.   My friends with little babies read that book and it makes them uncomfortable.  Getting published is definitely one aspect of success.  I think that itÕs when you get to the end of a novel, when you read anybodyÕs book not just mine, and if the end works for you, if you read it and you think ÒthatÕs rightÓ.  Sometimes I like to make people cry with my work.  ThatÕs always the best thing you can do.    ThereÕs an anthology thatÕs coming out called Forgotten Borough Ð Writers Come to Terms with Queens [pub. by SUNY Press].  And thatÕs the first time IÕve written about Queens.  I set the short story in a place called CafŽ Bar on 34th Avenue, which is a place that I love.  So when I had to write about Queens thatÕs what I chose.  But I think with fiction a lot of times you write about a place after youÕve left it.  So IÕll probably write more about Queens when I live somewhere else.    IÕve lived in Astoria for ten years.  I certainly didnÕt know IÕd be here for this long.  I came to New York and people said Òmove to QueensÓ, itÕs happening and its cheap.  And we like it so weÕve stayed and weÕve moved a couple of times around here.    I was brought up in Inglewood New Jersey.  But I lived in San Francisco, and then I lived in New Orleans, and then came home.  I actually lived in Dominican Republic for a bit too.  My husband had a job translating for a funny company, a little start-up translating company.  So I just wrote.  I had a year of not working, and worked on a book when I was there and went swimming. My husbandÕs German so we go there a little bit.   Alongside my own writing work I edit peopleÕs manuscripts Ð so short stories and novels Ð and I love doing that kind of work.  I can do it at home and in my own time, and itÕs perfect for when you have a baby.  IÕve been doing that for a couple of years now.  I also write film reviews for a website.  So itÕs busy, especially with Nina.  Sometimes I think it would be so much easier if I had a job, and could go.  Working from home and having a baby means not working.  So IÕm playing around with that.  The first idea is always the hardest thing for me.  What I like about writing novels is that theyÕre long.  Once you have the idea, you can just write for a couple of hundred pages. Every day when you start working you have this book and you keep writing it.  With short stories you finish them so quickly and then you need to have the next idea.  The hardest time for me as a writer is when you finish a novel.  Because to start a new novel is very daunting for me.  The ideas just come.  I donÕt believe in inspiration: I donÕt have a gazillion ideas.  I have to just force myself to sit in front of my computer and force myself to work, and then an idea will come.  But I donÕt normally start with an idea raring to go.  I just have to force it.    Astoria is very community oriented.  And IÕve particularly liked it since having a baby.  IÕve almost liked Queens and Astoria more since having Nina than before, which you wouldnÕt necessarily expect.  Suddenly I know my neighbors a lot more, I keep meeting mothers with strollers.  People are so warm and helpful.  The restaurants are good, the people are interesting.  And the rents are really good.  I think thatÕs a good reason isnÕt it?  I mean, we live on the top floor of a house Ð thatÕs nice.  I love it when my characters just do something.  Like in Bad Marie, Marie goes to Paris.  I didnÕt know she was going to do that until she went there.  My characters start making decisions without my planning it, because I donÕt plan.  And thatÕs really fun, because they become these creatures in my head that just do things.  My stories entertain themselves while I write them.  Sometimes I get upset when I write them if bad things happen but I just go through it.  ItÕs fun.  I like what they say.   