Jane Duffy is an Irish-American who despite being born in Manhattan, came to the country at the age of seventeen. She spent her early years doing housework and then waitressing to send back to her family in Ireland. She discusses her childhood in Ireland, living on a farm during the war. After getting married, she moves to Sunnyside and then Woodside.    00:00:25 Jane first came to New York in April of 1948, at the age of seventeen, in a boat called ÒThe America.Ó She travelled alone and on the trip over, she felt very sea sick. Her aunt lived in Newark, New Jersey where she lived for two months.  00:01:40 Her uncle worked for Prudential Insurance, he couldÕve gotten her a job for $29 a week. But Jane was not here for herself, she was here for her family. She was the oldest of five children and with no work in Ireland; they thought she would be better off doing housework. This way she can get room and board and also send money to Ireland and put money in the bank.       00:02:30 Jane went to Mrs. WagnerÕs Agency on 59th Street and Madison Avenue, thatÕs where they hired you when the jobs came in.  She got hired by a woman in Glen Cove, Long Island who paid her a $110 a month for the summer. She worked seven days a week, with a half day on Thursday where she would go to the beach with other Irish-Americans her age.  00:03:55 She then went back to the Agency and got a waitressing job in Riverdale for Jewish people. Jane also had family in Philadelphia with whom she stayed with, but Òthere wasnÕt much life in itÓ. She loved the buzz in Grand Central and Penn Station and knew thatÕs where she belonged.  00:04:55 Jane was born in Manhattan and raised in Ireland. Her parents went back when she was two years old. The only jobs available in Ireland for a seventeen year old were working at the shop but you had to pay them to teach you for three years and pay for your own living expenses.  00:05:35 JaneÕs sister was an investment banker and didnÕt understand why she didnÕt just go to school and get a good job rather than being a waitress.    00:06:00 The next summer she went to Lake Placid. Jane had a lot of friends who were doing the same type of jobs at her so wherever she saw a better opportunity with better pay, off she went. When her kids would complain about moving too much, she would reply, ÒWhen I was your age I slept in almost twenty different beds.Ó  00:06:26 Mrs. Wheeler was her boss and she had a brother named Mr. Rose, who had a big farm up in Poughkeepsie. ThatÕs when she decided that she wasnÕt going to do this anymore and got a job as a waitress at Schrafft's. Jane was then suggested to work at StoufferÕs instead, where she ended up working for thirty/forty years. It took six weeks of training, two hours every afternoon. At this time, she lived in East 81st street with a friend of her mothers.  00:08:30 In 1950, JaneÕs father joined her. She used to do some catering in the evenings for private dinner parties. The second year she was there, a dance hall by the name of ÒThe CaravanÓ opened up. On 59th and Madison there was a big clock, so if you had a date, you would meet them under there. Jane loved to dance, she rather dance than eat in those days. People were coming in the boat loads and it was great way to meet new people.  00:10:00 Jane had a friend who met a guy that said he worked at a bank. He was in engineering, she thought she had hit the jackpot but turns out he was just running the elevator up and down. He called himself a vertical engineer.  00:10:25 When Jane got married, she got an apartment in Sunnyside through     building managers that her husband knew as a construction worker on     41-49 45 street. Everyone in that building was from Ireland.  00:11:09 Jane knew who her husband was before she even left Ireland. She knew he was a mechanic and he always seemed to have a car which was a big deal at that time. Jane had a bike and during the time of the war you couldnÕt get a rubber tire. When she came back to Ireland for vacation, she met him at confession in Kerry. St. StephenÕs night (Boxing Day) is a big night in Ireland for dancing where he asked Jane to accompany him and a few friends. ÒKevin WoodÕs BandÓ was playing and the drummer of that band wanted to take Jane home three weeks before that but she wouldnÕt even dance with the man because he was from out of town and she didnÕt like long distance.  00:12:45 Jane had no intention of getting married, never wanted a steady boyfriend, but when she started hanging out with Patrick, one thing led to another. He was a great dancer and if you couldnÕt, Jane would never agree to a second date. ÒWhen poverty came in the window, dancing went out the door.Ó Her husband was also a musician who played the flute then later the saxophone. (Patrick Duffy and his Showband)  00:13:44 Jane had five children. Her oldest son works for the Supreme Court downtown as   a clerk. The other boy just retired, he was a Lieutenant in the Police Department.    Her daughter, Bernadette, is a nurse. Her other daughter, Monica just retired from   IBM after thirty three years. And Joan works for Columbian Presbyterian    hospital in the transplant unit. All of them married except for Monica. Jane has    thirteen grandchildren. 00:30:05 Had a horse training come in to do some exercises. Would get people asking about work with the horses.    00:14:53 Jane grew up on a farm in Ireland. They worked very hard and worked on the    land depending on which season it was. Then at night you came home to do your    homework but depending on if you had light. It was war time so if you didnÕt get    Paraffin oil for your lamps, you didnÕt have light after dark. So she would do her    homework in front of the fire, since she had a lot of homework.   00:15:46 Jane learned the Irish language in school. She studied it for six years in grammar    school and then went to the Convent in Charlestown, where she learned Latin,    French, Gaelic and English taught by nuns.     00:16:20 Jane is the oldest of five. They all eventually came to this country. Her one    brother, Billy, suffered from paranoid schizophrenia and was in the Mental    Hospital for thirty five years. Her sister was an investment banker who worked    for MacKay Shields. Joe was a bricklayer when he was sober; unfortunately he    died of drinking at fifty-three. Her other brother, Frank, worked on the Lincoln    Tunnel when he died at fifty-one due to an enlarged heart. Only she and her sister   are alive and both live in New York.  00:18:40 In Ireland, they worked in Meitheal; you worked together and helped each other    out.   00:20:00 When Jane first arrived to New York she couldnÕt understand how everyone knew where they were going except for her. She had to constantly read signs and directions. She came to Sunnyside when she got married, a ground floor apartment on 45th street. Jane bought a two family house in Woodside after having two kids and pregnant with the third. She lived in one and rented the other, living rent free for forty years. At that time Woodside was mainly Irish, Italians and Germans.  00:22:43 Saint Sebastian School was a big draw back in those days to move to Woodside. It was nearby so Jane didnÕt have to drive since she didnÕt have an American license. Back in Ireland, she purchased a license for a pound which would be equivalent to todayÕs $1.30, without a test or exam.  00:23:14 Jane and her husband were always involved in the Parish. She belonged to the Sliva and then eventually joined the county Mayo Association. Patrick bought a bar, though Jane hardly ever went into it because she didnÕt drink.  00:24:48 The longer Jane has been in America, the more thankful she is. In the beginning, being away from your family was difficult. Those whoÕve been in America and go back to Ireland are called ÒReturned Yank.Ó  Her fatherÕs first cousin married an Indian, Mable, who came to visit when she was in Ireland. She didnÕt know what to expect and realized she was just a normal girl.  00:25:52 Back in those day in Ireland, you didnÕt have TV, radio, electricity but you had each other. Elders had stories to tell and you would listen around the fire. Jane lived beside the Principal of the school, who was extremely nice to her.  00:26:48 JaneÕs father was involved in the IRA and was on the run from 1921-1922. The English tied him and his companions behind a truck and dragged them along the road. They were taken to Galway Jail for two years with just bread and water. They escaped from the jail and got a boat through Galway Bay and went to Canada.  00:28:22 Her father worked on the Holland Tunnel. Her family went back to Ireland in 1932; they were only supposed to go for a month and ended up being there for years. According to her father, they were in Ireland for Ònineteen years and nine days and nineteen years too long.Ó  The second time around he was in the US for six years when he died suddenly on the 7 Train. He was with JaneÕs two brothers, her mother and three friends.  00:29:40 Jane had extremely happy days with her family in Woodside, without the killings and robberies that you have now a days. When she had her first heart attack, five years ago, she was ready to go. Leaving Ireland when she did was the best decision she ever made. 