Mustafa Eid (ME): My name is Mustafa Eid.  I manage Trade Fair supermarket on 30th Avenue.  IÕve been at this location for two years and itÕs been wonderful so far.  ItÕs a safe area, very diverse.  You can always find anything you want.  In this store, other storesÉno matter where youÕre from you can always find what you want.  You can we probably have food from six or seven Middle Eastern countries, Brazil, Portugal, India, Pakistan, oh probably a good 12 countries from Latin AmericaÉall around actually.  I know where every single item is.    Prior I worked for the same company but we have another branch on Ditmars.  ItÕs very similar to 30th Avenue but not as exciting actually.  Over here is more diverse, much more diverse.  I live in Upper Ditmars.  The quieter version.   ItÕs actually been a journey.  I was a college dropout.  Yes, here in the United States.  I was born upstate but I was raised in Queens.  Right here in upper Ditmars.  IÕve been in the same house since I was six months old.  We moved from Syracuse when I was six months and IÕve been in the same neighborhood.  I probably know the majority of Astoria already.  I canÕt move anywhere else!  Nowhere else, no.    It was inherited.  My father he worked in the supermarket business, same company, since it opened.  And after I left school he talked to the boss and said listen my son needs a job.  I grew from the smallest position you can get, then I learned everything, and weÕre doing a fine job here.   Oh [in a normal day] I do everything from ordering the products to receiving the products to pricing the products.  Managing the store is hectic you know.    Hours are open, I donÕt even have a schedule.  Whenever I get the chance to stay here I stay here, no matter how long it takes.  I can be here between nine to 16 hours.  ItÕs busy till, around 2am.   Sabah Guessar [SG]:  ItÕs busy and safe.  Three oÕclock I am here sometimes and itÕs very like IÕm feeling home.  IÕm not feeling afraid.  ItÕs a nice area.    ME: ItÕs the diversity.  Everybody knows the other personÕs culture now.   You respect everybody, everybody respects you, you go on with your life and thatÕs it.  ItÕs not like itÕs black or white.  SG: No, no, no.  ItÕs international.  ItÕs not racist or nothing.  Everyone feels together.  Immigrants.  The only one thing we feel like all immigrants.  We try to be together.  Culture, religions, it doesnÕt make no difference.  Colors, countries, languages.  We try to speak each otherÕs languages.  We try five languages speaking: French, English, Spanish, Arabic, dialects.    ME: Even as managers here, we taught ourselves Spanish, we taught ourselves French.  Portuguese.   The products we know all of them.  TheyÕre surprised we actually know the name! SG: because when you come here you miss your country, you miss your stuff from your country, you just come to Trade Fair and Òlet me just come to the store which has international stuff and I will find my item.Ó  ME: We are the bridge between the East and the West.  We bring the food from the Eastern side of the World to the West.  SG: I am Moroccan.    ME: My family is originally Palestinian.  But in this area, you donÕt even ask where people are from any more.  Diversity brings people together, it does.    SG: You donÕt look for like colors or religion or country.  You look for the person who comes here to look for his products, to feel like heÕs in his own town.  Like when you come to the supermarket like you are travelling.  So like you meet all the world.  ME: You can cross borders when you cross our aisles.     Like three to eight is the busiest time of day.  SG: yes, like 12-8, this is the rush hour.  When people are doing the big shopping.    ME: We memorize all of our customers.   SG: So if you donÕt see them yesterday we say Òoh we didnÕt see you yesterday, what happened?Ó  Or like if a customer disappears for 2-3 days itÕs like Òwhat happened we didnÕt see you for a whileÓ.  ME: When I worked behind the deli counter I knew all the orders.  I just had to see a personÕs face I know their order.  ThatÕs when I worked behind the deli counter.  We have to have a good memory with this kind of establishment.  We treat every customer in a specific way.  We make them feel like they are at home.    SG: Like so when someone comes to ask for their product we have to make them  feel comfortable to come again.  ME: WeÕll walk them to the product.  StaffÉbetween 110-120.  [most challenging part of job] is making sure that every single product that a customer asks for is on the shelf.  [If someone requests something] I look up in my book, I try to find it and I get it for them.  ThatÕs the number, number one thing we do.  We are known for our variety and we want to stay known for it.    Trade Fair is only in Queens.  Nine locations only in Queens.  There are three in Astoria, one in Jamaica, two in Jackson Heights, and one in Long Island City.  ItÕs family-oriented.  It started off as a mom and pop shop.  It was only 400 square feet.  This was the first location, this was Trade Fair number one.  It started in 1974.  The first location was here, it was probably the size of this grocery store right here.  No, I wasnÕt even born yet.  My father started off in this store, and thatÕs how he knows the owners so close, and he got me in here.  WeÕre getting by thatÕs all weÕre asking for.  I have a baby picture in Õ87 of when I was in this place.    IÕm 25 now.  Oh I had to work hard for it.  I started off at minimum wage.  And I built myself all the way up until I got this position.  With trust and hard work.  Hopefully [in the future] I can get Vice-president of the company.  I canÕt be the President Ð because the PresidentÕs the owner Ð but maybe IÕd get Vice!  Hopefully I can get Vice Presdient thatÕs all IÕm asking for.  Hopefully!  [Re family-run businesses].  People would prefer to go to a mom and pop shop to support you know a family-owned business rather than a franchise.  Because franchise is always going to go back to corporate and what-not.  ItÕs always good to support a place that started off from nothing.  And thatÕs serving the public for so long.  You know that itÕs always going to be here for you.  The boss started off like one of these customers.  He came into the store as a customer and found out it was for sale and he took it.    [The people who work here come] from all over, from all five boroughs.  Some even come from Long Island and upstate and they commute every day.  Anybody comes and asks for a job, we ask them to fill in an application, thatÕs all.  ThereÕs online hiringÉnewspapersÉand we advertise in the Spanish paper, the Arabic paper, the Indian paper.    We have a diverse crew here also.  Very diverse crew.  So any language that a customer walks in we will have at least one worker who speaks that language.   We have to make sure that they are completely satisfied.    Yes some employees have been here a long time.  We trust them but we still have to watch them.  People are always going to slack no matter what.  We have to have someone on top of their head.    