Elanna White (EW):  IÕm a student and also an actress.  Studying drama at NYU.  Josh Ellis (JE):  I am a music producer, writer, composer.  I donÕt know.  I make music.    EW: [On why their band is called Donner Social] Josh likes obscure references.   JE: Manifest DestinyÉI like Manifest Destiny.  The story from all that which I like the most is the story of the Donner Party, where they decided it would be a wonderful romp through the woods and there would be an organ, I think they were going to California, and they thought theyÕd have lots of fun but they ended up eating each other.  So the idea behind that is something normal, like a history lesson or a party or something, but thatÕs on the surface while underneath that thereÕs something quite a bit darker.  ThatÕs a theme with the band.   EW: Josh and I have been making music with each other for a very long time.  We were in a band together before this.  IÕm a singer and he played the guitar.  It was one of those things that was a no-brainer I think.  JE: WeÕd been writing music together for a long time.  I mean since, god, since eighth grade when we were thirteen.   EW: We graduated from Frank Sinatra School of the Arts.  Now thatÕs in Astoria.  Josh was only there three years and he was in a different school freshman year.  I was there for four years.  It was in LIS before it moved to Astoria.  We knew each other from before high school.     JE: Yes, weÕd been writing music a long time and then the band that we were in kind of disbanded, and I was kind of left after that without a band.  I didnÕt know what I wanted to do.  I had been playing around with a few production programs and digital music-making programsÉbefore I was really doing rock but got into electronica through bands like The Postal Service.  That made me realize I didnÕt actually need all the musicians for a band, because I can be the musicians.  I can do it myself.   EW: ItÕs a long process making electronic music.   JE: Some people think if you have a mac computer youÕre automatically a pro musician.  But thatÕs not at a serious level.  Even at the beginning when IÕd written some of the electronic music that IÕd had in my headÉI had written it but I didnÕt want to be singing all of it, there was a missing component.  And honestly that was Elanna.    EW: He called me and said I donÕt want to hear my voice on any of my songs any more, will you sing them all for me.  And I said, ok, little did he know that meant well IÕm going to write with you and IÕm going to tell you what sounds good and sounds bad, in exchange for my soul!   JE: She has a very good sense of sound.   We donÕt really disagree that much.  Sometimes IÕll write a song that she wonÕt be wild about and honestly IÕll just take that as a sign that the song isnÕt meant for the band, and I might use it for something else.  One of the songs that you turned down a while ago, I presented to another artist and he went crazy over it and it worked out anyways.  I really do trust her when it comes to the sound . Even when IÕm writing it, I sometimes lose the sense of what the music is meant to be.  She just has that in her head at all times, I really trust her in all that.   EW: In our previous band there were five of us and we all have very different styles to what we do.  I am primarily a musical theatre performer and thatÕs mainly what I do, and thatÕs what IÕm the best at.  So I had this grand sense of melodics, and harmonies Ð you just give me a piece of music and I can sing a harmony to it.  But our guitarist was very into metal and he had all these metal riffs.    JE: And our bassist was a jazz bassist!  EW: It totally worked though.  But thereÕs definitely a difference there when we were in our studio playing live at band practice versus electronica music, this is the backtrack, we can alter it etc.   JE: WeÕve only had one performance so far.  WeÕre done writing the album but weÕre going back reexamining it a bit before itÕs released.  ItÕs called ÒIn Suspended Animation.Ó   That show at National Underground [on ManhattanÕs Houston Street] gave me a good sense about what weÕre going to be looking at.     We have a little bit more behind us now, like a lighting and sound person for live performances. Before we were super poor, now weÕre just very poor!  EW: WeÕre musicians.   Re. being a native New Yorker: being born and raised here, you kind of forget where youÕre living.  It just kind of becomes another place where you live.  You have to remind yourself wow this is New York City, people dream of coming here.  We spent our late childhood and entire adolescence wandering around these streets, you know.   JE: Getting lost on purpose.  EW: Getting lost on purpose, wandering around these streets, walking down the same street every day because we had nothing else to do, you know.  These endless summers and sleepless nights of just being here.  And almost stagnantly.  Because when youÕre a teenager you canÕt do all the things that we can do now.  We just simply couldnÕt.  It took a toll on our music.  ItÕs not just like another small town, so I think you have the contrast of almost having that small town dynamic in Astoria, where we knew every nook and cranny, and just to find something new was incredible.  And yet we were in this huge giant city.    JE: We did go into the city a lot.  But you get to the point when you feel like youÕve done everything.  Even in New York.  People might think thatÕs absurd!  But as kids we couldnÕt go to all the fancy places everyone was going to, we didnÕt really have a lot of money, we were just wandering and doing everything that we could do for free.    EW: There was one summer where we literally went to the Museum of Moving Image, like at least three times a week.  And MOMA all of the days when we werenÕt at MOMI because we had just enough money for two subway fares and maybe a slice of pizza.  JE: I feel like that kind of stuff is really reflected in the music.  Because that kind of almost nostalgic, IÕm not even sure what to call it, this feeling of having a towering city around you but almost feeling trapped in it.  EW: Exactly.  ThatÕs what I meant by stagnant.    JE: I mean we love it, we love this city.  Especially now as weÕre able to do more.  But as a kidÉthe whole album is really aboutÉ  EW: Trying to find imagination in something that you know so well.  JE: Trying to find adventure.  Trying to go down a path that youÕve gone down a trillion times and trying to find some sort of adventure in it.  But there is none, you canÕt find adventure in itÉ  EW: Unless you have the right companion.    JE: Or unless you get seriously lost, and sometimes you just have to have the right person to even be able to get lost with, you know?  If you canÕt get lost physically you can get lost mentally I supposed.  No, we didnÕt notice there were other musicians here when we were growing up.  EW: Honestly no, actually.    JE: Really the music scene in New York Ð the music scene is dead.  There really is barely a music scene in New York.  ThatÕs me comparing that to Portland and Seattle, like all the ways over.  New York used to have a really great punk scene.  It used to have a lot of really great scenes.  But those have really been more muddied by the random post-hardcore bands that are coming through.  I love post-hardcore, I love EDM, but a lot of these types of music even though I like them, thereÕs just too much of the same genre.  ItÕs really, really difficult to find any show thatÕs not just a band that youÕve heard a trillion times.  Unless itÕs a famous band coming through, you know.  But a lot of the local bandsÉwhat would you say is the last New York band that you were really into?...  EW: ErrrÉ..  JE: I think there are a lot of people doing electronica but they are doing it in a different way.  EW: I feel like there are a lot of people doing electronic but one thing about electronic is thereÕs a very certain aesthetic that comes to mind, although that aesthetic is not our aesthetic, in my head.  JE: In other electronic when you hear the vocals in it itÕs like sampled in.  They are just part of the backtrack.  ItÕs really only a backtrack, itÕs just a big backtrack.  And while there may be vocals in it, they donÕt really mean anything, they are just words that sound good together, create a nice rhythmÉ  EW: Well going back to my background, everything that I write vocal-wise is very melodic.   JE: And storytelling.  EW: Yes, and the way that I write word-wise always tells a story.  And I firmly believe in art that tells stories.  So from that standpoint I feel like the vocal lines in our music are so strong.  We have this one song thatÕs called Dead Pixel thatÕs one of my favorites.  ItÕs just instrumental but even that I feel tells this enormous story.   IÕve kind of been trying to figure out what it is, and have found myself listening to that song over and over again.  Because itÕs not just sound for the sake of sound I suppose, which is something that I personally IÕm not the biggest fan of.   One of the screening tests that the songs that are written go through with me is like, I have to have a song bring me to a certain place that I really feel.  For me to really feel that this song is amazing.  JE: By the way I understand this feeling completely and I know exactly what it isÉ  EW: Josh knows.  JE: But I canÕt necessarily feel it with the song that I have been listening to over and over and over again.  We tend to have this feeling for the same things.  So if sheÕs feeling it I assume that I would too if I hadnÕt heard it a million times before.  You know.  EW: And I guess it fits that IÕm the resident feeler because IÕm an actress.  Most of the songs I actually can say, most of the songs that affect me like that bring me to this place where you start to formulate your own ideaÉyour imagination automatically starts creating this story that goes along with it.    JE: Even if I have some of the lyrics I donÕt always know what itÕs about and IÕll ask her and then continueÉbecause sheÕs right!  EW: IÕm always right!  JE: IÕm juggling a bunch of things.  Right now, I mean IÕm in two other bands with completely different kinds of music, I run a record label and a studio out of my house, alongside my day job.   I work at an early childhood development program thing.  DonÕt put that in the interview! No, you can put in whatever you want.  It really is just a day job.  I went in telling them that.  A lot of people are there because their life is going to be little kids.  I told them the only reason IÕm taking the job is so that I have the money to support my record label.  And I produce a few other artists on top of that.   EW: We record them in his house. Writing-wise itÕs whoever gets there first.  If I write something I send it to him, if he writes something he sends it to me and then we sew together the pieces.  And we record in whatever time we have.  My schedule is super-rigorous and his is super-busy too.  ItÕs definitely like patchwork.  But it works.  It seems to work.   As masochistic as it might be I thrive on that kind of thing, you know [juggling lots of things at once].  ThereÕs something so exhilarating and liberating when youÕre so crazed with so much creative energy.  ItÕs crazy.   JE: IÕve had an idea for a while for recording with a band where there would go and do a show and then right after the show you would drive them over to the studio and immediately record.  So the music has that level of energy that you donÕt get if you wake up, go to the studio, record.  If youÕve just been at a show and youÕve just played for all your fans and you go and record it, itÕs going to have a very different energy to it.  YouÕre capturing that moment.  When you just have a minute to record and have no other time to do it, the way that you are feeling at that moment and the things that are going on around you, you can feel it in the vocals.    EW: Yes, thatÕs true.  JE: We have some songs and I feel if you listen to them you can really feel whatÕs going on around.    Welling Court has become a much tighter community. I know who everybody is now. I was born in Santa Fe New Mexico and moved here when I was six.  When I first moved to that block it was like just craziness.  I was a little kid and there were tons of other little kids everywhere.  Mostly from immigrant families.  It was tons of fun.  Then as I got older everyone left and there were more random people that I didnÕt know, that no-one knew.  Then we started having the block parties.  And now I know all my neighbors.  I have neighbors over for dinner on occasionÉitÕs a nice community, everyone knows each other, you know.  The murals and the block partiesÉwhile the block parties are happening the murals are being painted.  It brings us together in a pretty interesting way that IÕve never experienced ever.  I donÕt have any intentions of leaving Astoria.    EW: ItÕs so close to everything.  JE: I would go visit Paris for a few months or something, or Tuscany, places like that, and I also go to Tucson Arizona a bit because my grandparents  live out there.   But I donÕt think I could every really live anywhere else.  It has all of thatÉ  EW: I live on Broadway between 35 and 36 Street and my parents own Broadway Silk Store, across the street from the funeral home.  That store has been in our family for like 90 years.  So I have this really rich sense of history in Astoria.  One of the things I love is that everything is up very late at night.  IÕm a New Yorker so of course IÕm a night owl!  So itÕs nice for me that at 2am if I want to go on a Mexican food run with my best friend whoÕs sleeping over is that we can do that.  I also realized I can get food from anywhere in the world within a two block radius from my house!  Thai food, Indian food, Vietnamese food, Chinese food, pizza, ItalianÉand thatÕs one of the things I love itÕs just this hub for culture.   JE: ItÕs a difficult thing because these days at first glance when you think about the internet you think well anyone around the world can hear our music, and thatÕs true, and thatÕs an amazing thing.  But at the same time anyone around the world can hear it.  So now weÕve all moved from analogue to digitalÉpeople donÕt have to go into a store to steal music any more.  In a lot of ways the concept of buying a record is dead.  I do, but IÕm one person.  I still buy vinyl.  ThereÕs almost no reason for anyone to buy music other than if theyÕre thinking well I want this artist to continue making music so IÕll buy their CD.  So you have to find new ways of getting people to give you money for your music.  Whether thatÕs by going to a show or buying some merchandise, or maybe thereÕs something on an album that for some reason you canÕt get online.  We got the money behind us now mostly from my day job, also from getting commissioned to write soundtracks for films, artists paying to use the studio, stuff like that.  Almost all of my money goes back into my label and back into music.  The rest of it goes into pizza.   EW: Taiwan, England, Japan [are places IÕd like to play].    JE: For some reason I really want to go play in Peru.    We will let this band become anything that it becomes.  We can really make it our own.  I was saying Òmy own beforeÉbut my own is really her own tooÓ because we have the same ideas on stuff.  We donÕt really conflict on style.  ItÕs true we were meant to make music together.   EW: WeÕre both nineteen now.   JE: ThatÕs one of the things about being in New York.  When people come here wanting to be an actress o wanting to be a famous singer, you know I feel like people who grow up in New York have this advantage over the people who come here.  People come here and get here and have all these dreams they donÕt even know where to start.  Even if they have a connection here they donÕt have the sense that New Yorkers have.  Whereas we have an advantage.  We know where to go, we know the places we want to market to  even, we know the scene.  WeÕre not really competing with the other people who come here, weÕre competing with other New Yorkers.  Many times IÕve seen a band play and IÕve thought IÕm sure youÕre not from here.    EW: You also grow up a lot faster in New York.  I mean IÕm only 19 years old but sometimes I feel so old!  I mean especially because I have really bad child actor syndrome as well, so itÕs like IÕve been doing this for so long.  IÕve been working professionally in the city since I was like 8 years old.  And I know the twists and turns of the industry, and I know what I need to do, and I know how close IÕve been to x, y and z.  I mean once you do that and you grow up living in it, you have an innate senseÉ  JE: Initially it seems not so great.   But I really think that the thing that gives us that extra little thing is that anyone can have the ideas we have or do the things that we are doing, market to the people that weÕre marketing to Ð anyone in New York Ð the difference is that one, those people donÕt have the means to have an idea and record what they are doing.  On top of that people can have all these ideas but weÕre the only ones who are really trying to do it.  EW: [The Broadway Silk Store] was my great grandparentsÕ Ð my grandmotherÕs mother, her family they had seven kids and they came maybe during WW1 from Austria.  They had two fabric stores, one where we have the store now and one on Steinway.  My grandma was born and raised there, she went to Bryant High School and we own two buildings close to each other.  I grew up in the one thatÕs two buildings away from the one weÕre in now.  When we were eight my great, great aunt passed away and we moved into where we are now, just above the fabric store.  So itÕs been in this town for ever.  My mom runs the store now and my dadÕs a chef.  We help out and stuff.  We have a basement area and we have old pictures from how Astoria used to be with the trolley line and stuff like that.  ItÕs such an old place with so much history. ThereÕs something innately charming about the neighborhood, partly because a lot of it is small businesses.    JE: And there are a lot of old buildings too, like mine is over 100 years old.  A lot of the buildings in Astoria are the original buildings.   