Jonathan Ellis  (JE): I live on Welling Court, which is at the intersection of 30th Avenue and 12th Street  Georgina Young Ellis GYE): IÕm JohnÕs wife.  I live in the same place!  WeÕve lived there for ten years.  JE: We moved here from New Mexico and we lived on 12th Street for three years.  And spent the last year and a half of our time there we were looking for a house to buy.  We insisted on it being in Astoria.  We looked at tons of places. We saw this one, and we knew it was within our budget, and we knew it had some potential.  We were the first people to see it.  We made an offer and bought it.   GYE: At that time, Welling Court, which was a street that really very few people knew about, until we did the mural project, it was a bad street.  There were a lot of good people on it, who are still there now.  But there were also crack houses.  One was right next door to us.  And we just kind of kept being persistent about calling the police when that was going on.  Eventually, we and our neighbors made it into this really family neighborhood.  Without gentrifying, without throwing anyone out except crack-heads!  And prostitutes.  We and others kind of pioneered the neighborhood. Without at all wanting to really change it.  Because, well, some people refer to it as little Mexico.    JE: Yes, the police refer to it as that.  GYE: There are a lot of Mexican neighbors.  We really value that.  Being from the South west and having come here from New Mexico, we felt really at home.  I love the community.  And that might sound clichŽ or trite, but I really do.  I love the flavor of it.  And I love that itÕs so many families and that there are tons of kids.  And as soon as the weather gets warm the street is just like filled with kids.  Because itÕs not one of these really heavily travelled streets so theyÕre out there playing soccer all the time.  And itÕs warm.  ItÕs just a warm community.  And now we have the community garden right around the corner [Two Coves Community Garden].  Which just adds to it.  That started three years ago. WeÕre members of it.  JE: Right now Georgina and I are both working to get our feature-length screenplay produced.  And weÕre making some progress there.  And I just published my book on weight control about a month ago. And Georgina just published her novel.   GYE: TheyÕre both e-books.  JonÕs is a paperback as well and an e-book and mineÕs just an e-book.  So weÕre writers.  And Jon is also a web-designer.  And a film-maker.  And I am also a teacher.  I teach English as a second language.  And IÕm an actress.  WeÕre artists, essentially!  JE: IÕd been looking at gang-tagging getting worse and worse and worse.  In the neighborhood and all around the neighborhood.  Well, IÕve always really kind of admired graffiti in all kinds of ways.  When it was nice!  Of course Banksy is a big influence in the world right now.  And I saw a piece of programming on CBS Sunday mornings that was about an event in Paris that is done every year where graffiti artists from all over the world converge and do their works.   So I got that in my head, that there was no reason why we couldnÕt somehow manage to pull that off on Welling Court.  So I spent two years I guess trying to get somebody to play the game with us.  I used to find people working on the street and just stop them and say, ÒI have this project in mind and IÕm looking for people to do it with me.Ó  Strangely it was difficult to make that connection.  And then a friend of ours said ÒI know these people and IÕll connect you to them.Ó  TheyÕre a group called Ad Hoc arts.  Ad Hoc connected us to essentially forty artists.  They invited them into the neighborhood.  GYE: From all over the world.  Some of them are really world-renowned.   JE: WeÕre going to do it again in June.  ThereÕs more wall-space.  And many of the artists are going to come back and re-paint over the areas where they have already painted.  The strange thing is that we were told by many of the artists that we could expect the art to be up for a couple of weeks before it would get tagged.  Well, itÕs almost a year later.  And most of the work has remained un-tagged.  So there is a response, even from the community that would want to muck things up, thereÕs for the most part a response of a positive nature.   People are interested.  We connect all this with a block party.  So that people in the neighborhood are connected with the artists.  That reaches out to all of New York.  We had people show up at the last block party from everywhere.    GYE: We had done the block party three times before the art.  We call it the Welling Court block party.  And when we do it, everyone just brings out tons and tons and tons of food.  The people in the neighborhood.  We grill hamburgers, and people make their traditional food. ThereÕs Mexican, thereÕs Peruvian, thereÕs Brazilian.  And we have Greek too on the block. Some people are people who donÕt really have a lot of money and yet they manage to bring something out.  Even if itÕs basic, itÕs something to add to it. And tasty, oh my God!  And we have this kind of feast together.  We invite people to join us.  But weÕre going to put the word out this year that if you come, please bring something.  Because the people on the block are not providing for like thousands of people!  JE: Last year because it was the first time we extended it out, we did see some people who came in and they would have their own drink.  They werenÕt taking anything from anybody else.  But you know, they just brought drink for themselves.  I really would like to instill that feeling that weÕre a broader community and that weÕre all sharing.  And if they canÕt share food or drink or whatever, IÕd ask that they make some contribution to the artists, you know.  The artists are there doing an incredible thing not just for Welling Court and the blocks around it, but for all of Astoria.  And really indirectly for all of New York.    GYE: I mean all of those walls that are now covered with art were covered with terrible graffiti.  I mean it was just a graffiti magnet. It was ugly.  And kind of sad.  We never knew when they were doing it.  It would just appear.  It was basically gang graffiti.  JE: A lot of what they do is technically against the law. Interestingly even while we were doing this, thereÕs some kind of graffiti-removing unit that came along, and we got to talking with them.  And they were like Òthis is fantasticÓ.  We were saying ÒJesus, donÕt get rid of this!Ó And they said ÒThis is art, we wouldnÕt touch it!  They recognized it immediately as art.  The response from the community has been amazing.  GYE: We had to get permission from every business whose walls are used.  That took a while to get.  There was a little resistance.  ThereÕs a school bus company.    JE: There was some resistance from them.  Because they didnÕt know what to expect.  ThereÕs a hierarchy there that was a little bit hard to get through to the main person.  But once I was able to talk to her, she was interested in what we were doing and said Òyes, do it.Ó  But I think initially she was unsure.  Even when some of the paintings were going up, she had people within the organization who didnÕt know we had permission.  They were almost antagonistic to a couple of the artists.  But what was very interesting Ð apparently people who were in the neighborhood watching the artists literally stepped in and stood up for them and said this is great, we want it.   So to me, this is all community building.  GYE: And itÕs not like weÕre a community of all artists, where everybodyÕs into you know, ÒletÕs have our wall be arty-looking.Ó  This is a community of mostly working people, largely immigrants, who do whatever work they doÉsome are homeowners and possibly professionals, others do whatever they do to survive.  So itÕs not like they have this attitude of ÒletÕs be this art mecca.Ó  They all are just excited that their street is not going to have ugly graffiti but instead will have something pretty interesting, unusual, and eye-catching.   JE: One of the artists [M City] was from Poland.  We had people from Brazil, from Chile, from Denmark.    GYE: M City came in and did his piece a few months before.   JE: He came in December.  He was there over a Christmas holiday prior to all the other work being done.  And one of our neighbors had an empty apartment and let him stay there for three days while he did it.  Georgina and I never met him.  We were away.  And what was funny was that we thought he was going to do a different wall.  So we heard that he was coming to work.  Then we came back home and it was very late at night.  We were in a cab.  We drove up and I was so disappointed, I was like Òoh it didnÕt happen.Ó  There was nothing on Welling Court.  Then I walked out and on 30th Ave of course there was this magnificent piece of work.    GYE: As it turns out, the bus company are really the ones who provided most of the wall.  Because all the wall thatÕs across 30th Avenue, on the 30th Ave side and then around the corner, thatÕs all bus company walls.  Plus the one that runs along Welling Court across from the M City mural.  Basically all of the bus company walls and the gates are done now.   JE: TheyÕve been really forthcoming now about allowing us to control the outside of their walls. They see that there is an impact in the neighborhood and I think they like that, as much as anybody.   People are coming in now from outside the neighborhood to photograph it, to video.  Music videos are being made on the street.  ItÕs bringing a different sense of what a block is.   There was a time just after the project when we found out that Welling Court had become one of the ten hottest places to visit for art in New York City.  That, is cool!  GYE: We were so blown away.  JE: It was so unexpected.    GYE: And again, and thatÕs without any sort of Williamsburgian gentrification.  What Welling Court used to be known for before was that on December 11th ever year our neighbors organized a fiesta for the feast of the virgin of Guadalupe.  So there was a little shrine that they built on our street.  They invite everyone in the neighborhood, they go door to door to knock and invite people.  They have mariachis and they bring pi–ata, and food, and invite everyone to join in.    JE: WeÕd been in the neighborhood for about five years when that started.  And the first time they did it was a surprise to us.  GYE: It went on quite late into the night.  It was very loud!  We were like ok, we just need to be cool with this.  Really you couldnÕt sleep.   JE: Then after that time they started inviting everybody to the celebration and warning us, so if you donÕt want to come!    GYE: Actually they seem to have kind of toned it down over the years.  JE: Ever since weÕve started doing the block parties, now every time we walk down the street we all know each other in one way or another.    GYE: ThereÕs a group called Long Island City Alliance that IÕve belonged to for many years.  It brings people together around issues of graffiti, over-development and things like that.  That was largely responsible for helping to get a done-zoning happening in Astoria.  To keep the crazy over-development out of some neighborhood.    JE: Some areas realized that the down-zoning was going to be inevitable.  Some builders did come in and really tear down 150-year old homes.  Fantastic buildings.  They knew that the community wouldnÕt like it so they literally would go in and knock a house down in a day.  Just surround it with plywood and knock it down.  On 27th Avenue and 12th Street thereÕs e prime example of that.  They tore out like 30 trees, and just decimated the area.  Now there are condos.   GYE: That organization also helps people to reach out into their own neighborhoods.  Like if some in appropriate building is going on along your street, you can contact that organization then connect with other people who are concerned.  And it helps you to get to know people in your neighborhood.  In Astoria you can  know not only your neighbors, but a lot of people.  We know people all through Astoria, and into Long Island City and Sunnyside.   WeÕre both from LA originally.  But we met in New Mexico and then lived there and had our child and family started there.  We came out here because, I went to college here.  After I left New York back in the 80s and went out to New Mexico for a while to do some acting, I always knew that I wanted to come back.  It took us a while to come back but now weÕre here.  I certainly want to stay now.   I think that the tradition of New York City is development.  ItÕs pretty hard to put the breaks on New York City development.  You canÕt really say no, we are not going to build buildings and develop.  But IÕm optimistic because of the progress weÕve already made in really keeping a handle on it.  Keeping it under control, guiding it.  IÕm optimistic that this area and other small areas in New York City can grow and develop in a good and positive way.  ItÕs kind of in my nature to be optimistic, but I do hope that IÕm right about that.  That we can do it without driving people out of their homes and rentals.  ThatÕs a big thing for me. Jackson Heights is going through the same thing.  There are cool, cool local communities where the more people want to live here, and the more wonderful  little places like this get built, the more rents go up and the more that people who were living there a long time get driven out.  Then big box stores come in and then suddenly itÕs not so desirable any more.  ItÕs this whole wave of things that happen.  I feel like right now thereÕs an awareness of that wave, and an awareness of how to try to counteract it.  So far I see it going in the right direction.  JE: I certainly like things like this place [Astor Bake Shop], coming into the neighborhood.  And Vesta [Italian Trattoria].  TheyÕre popping up.  And it was daring for him [George McKirdy, owner of Astor Bake Shop] open this place up.  To have that forward-thinking idea that this could work here, without changing the neighborhood.  And it does.  It fits into the neighbhoorhood.  People who live here come here and support it and love it.  I wouldnÕt mind seeing more of that.   I do however draw that line where I donÕt want to see that cycle that Georgina was talking about happen here.  There needs to be a balance.  A good example of what works is the Piano Factory building.  They went in and as far as I know, they gutted the inside.  Then they re-built the condominiums inside that structure.  And the outside of the structure was completely maintained.  What a great thing to do.  And what a contribution to the community.    GYE: I have to say that there are some died-in-the-wall preservationists that would not be in favor of that.  However for those of us who are willing to see that there is some flexibility, itÕs so much better than tearing that building down.    JE: There is a building that was built over there, basically just a box that they slapped up.  It dazzles me that they would build a thing like that when they could have built something more pretty.  People would love having this fantastic view of the water.  Instead, all they could think to do was build a cube?  What kind of mindset does that?  And itÕs right across the street from the piano factory.  I canÕt imagine somebody choosing one thing over the other.    G: 21st Street is considered a corridor where thereÕs an exception from the down-zoning.  ItÕs like a corridor where people are free to build.   