My name is Yokaira Espiritu Santo.  The patients here call me Doctor Santo for short.  And I’m a podiatrist in Astoria.  I have no idea what the origin of Yokaira is.  A lot of patients ask me.  I suppose I should look it up, but I don’t really want to know.  It’s my name, it’s me, I guess.  When I was younger I had chronic in-growing toenails.  I would go into the bathroom and play with my feet.  That caused them to be in-grown.  It wasn’t until I saw a podiatrist, after multiple visits to my pediatrician, who kept taking them out (mind you he was about 80 years old), and they just kept recurring. It wasn’t until I saw the podiatrist that they were cured.  Well cured is the wrong word, but he stopped them recurring.  There’s never an actual cure for anything, per se.    I was very grateful and happy that I could wear my sandals and my open toe shoes, and paint my toenails etc.  So I became a podiatrist because of that.  Originally I wanted to be a pediatrician.  Inspired by that 80 year old pediatrician. Usually you go to college for 4 years and you major in biology or science, and do pre-med classes.  Then you go to podiatry school which is another 4 years.  Then you go to 3-4 years surgical training, in a residency, certified by the American Association of Podiatric Medicine.  And then you become a podiatrist.  So it’s pretty much more the same standard as normal medical school, but you’re just geared more towards the lower extremity.  I did all my training in New York.  I went to school in New York College of Podiatric Medicine in Manhattan.  And I did my training in New York Hospital of Queens, in Flushing.  I enjoy meeting people and helping them out in terms of their problems, making them feel better.  Usually people come in here with pain and discomfort, and you know, we treat them and they leave to some extent pain free and happy in terms of their foot. One of the common things that we treat here is heel pain.  Also in-growing toenails.  We also see a lot of diabetic patients and do a lot of preventative care so that they won’t lose their feet due to poor circulation or amputation or infections.  We treat children.  And I guess the whole gamut of things.  Sometimes we do surgeries.  To deal with bunions, and hammer toes. We treat a lot of trauma as well.  Like ankle sprains and fractures.  If people stand a lot for work or if they are runners they definitely damage their feet a lot.  Patients that stand up a lot at work definitely have more wear and tear on their feet.  Also the shoes that you wear are a factor.  If I know that a certain pair of shoes is causing discomfort. Or if they’re wearing a certain pair of sneakers.  Like for example we definitely promote a lot of New Balance sneakers because they come a little bit wider and they have better arch support for patients.  We try to steer them away from Nikes even though that’s like the main brand that people usually wear.  Everybody’s always happy that comes through this office.  Most of the people that I encounter, everybody’s always happy, everybody has a different story, everybody comes from all different walks of life.  This summer everyone’s telling me about their vacations, what they did do, didn’t do.  They talk about their kids, their grandkids.  I see one patient, and that patient brings me their mom or their father or their girlfriend.  It turns into a family event here at times.  Sometimes I have a whole family in one day.  I definitely appreciate the fact that they trust me and that they bring other people and refer other people to come here.  It’s pretty cool.  I work in this office as well as the one in Sunnyside and also the one in Manhattan.  We rotate around.  In the Manhattan office, everyone wants the quick fix, in and out, fix me as soon as possible I’m on my lunch break kind of mentality.  Or I want to go home, I just got out of work.  Here people have more time and they come on their days off.  Or we have more elderly people coming into our office than in Manhattan.  Dr Hans was my attending when I was a resident.  He trained me in the hospital – he went there when he had cases and stuff like that.  And then he said “come on, you have to work with me!  I’ve known him for about six, seven years.  And started working with him about two years ago.  The part I least enjoy is paperwork.  I see maybe 20 to 30 patients a day and then for every patient I need 10 to 15 minutes worth of paperwork.  If it’s a new patient it takes me another 30 minutes per chart.  So it’s a lot of paperwork.  And I think most medical professions, they don’t like the paperwork.  It’s increasing, because I see more patients.   I’ve been taking lots of work home.  When you’re home, you want to relax.  You know you get home, you want to relax, you’ve put in 12 hours and you just want to relax.   Usually I’m here 12 hours.  It’s a brutal schedule.  We have a brutal schedule.   Usually I can’t leave the office for my break.  So usually we have stuff delivered here to the office, either from the pizzeria across the street.  And Ghandi (Indian restaurant).  I love that place.  I usually go there at least once a month on a Monday with my girlfriend and we enjoy dinner there, pretty late.  I have to wait for her to get out of the hospital.  But I make it happen, at least once a month.  I commute.  And that’s killing me.  That’s another thing I hate about my job!  I commute from New Jersey.  It’s frustrating in terms of tolls, and the time it takes, and the frustration because of traffic.  But you know, I definitely like the people in the office.  And people are like “Dr Santos don’t ever leave!”  And I’m like I’ll try not to, but being 2, 3 hours in traffic, sometimes it’s rough.    I just moved to Jersey two years ago.  Hopefully soon I’ll start a family over there.  I don’t want to live in the city any more, I lived here for 10 years already.  I lived in Manhattan for five and then in Flushing for four.   I was born in Dominican Republic but moved here when I was two years old.  I lived in New Jersey most of my life.  I went to college in New Jersey, I went to Rutgers University.  And then I started my medical school in Manhattan and residency in Flushing.  Career-wise I would like to have my own practice.  State-of-the-art everything.  And in an ideal world, have lots of rooms, work three times a week, do surgery one day a week.  Possibly join a residency program where I could train other people to become podiatrists.  Maybe do teaching lectures here and there.  Maybe do trauma here and there.  But the problem with trauma is that you always have to be on your pager, with your pager next to your hip.  So I’ll probably just do trauma call once or twice a month.  (laughs).  That’s my ideal.  Oh and I’d dictate all of my charts instead of handwriting them. It will take some time and a lot of energy on my part.  I definitely want three kids and I’ve got to start soon!  My time is ticking.  I want two girls and a boy.  I already have their names and everything!  Definitely want that.     