My name is Giuseppe Falco and I'm the owner of Vesta Trattoria and Winebar in Astoria.   I've lived in Astoria for ten years now and I went to high school in Astoria.  It was a different neighborhood for sure then.  It has always been very community-oriented though.  It's always been a community that's very involved with their children, and what's going on in Astoria.  Everyone seems to know each other.  It's a really small place even though its actually a vast area.    There has definitely been a group of young professionals that have moved in a lot more.  It seems to have got much younger.    Three words I would use to describe the neighborhood:  Devoted.  Tight-knit community.   Arts-oriented.  And for sure diversity, too.  ItÕs probably the most diverse place IÕve ever heard of.  ItÕs incredible how many large communities live in one community.  The way that you have a large Greek population that lives next to a large Egyptian population that lives next to a large Bangladeshi population that lives next to a large Italian community.    My father, mother and siblings were all born in Italy, though I was born here by a few years Ð they were born in Sicily.   I was at high school with Leo, my best friend since we were five.  I was in the restaurant business and he was in IT.  WeÕd always talked about starting a business.   We had such strong ties in Astoria, that it made sense to do it here.   Actually I live about five blocks away.  And there was such an incredible amount of building on 21st Street.  We felt like we were priced out of the main area on 30th Avenue and on Broadway and Ditmars.  It also felt like the young generation that was moving into Astoria was looking around the outskirts, around the edges of Astoria.   ItÕs been a full two years and three or four months weÕve been open now.   A lot of the young people who have moved into Astoria have found us.  TheyÕve found a place where they can feel comfortable.  That was the whole idea of Vesta, it was supposed to be a place where you can come in have a glass of wine, have a soup, or just not have anything.   We do a pretty good job of sourcing every ingredient that we use locally.  Sometimes itÕs not completely possible but every year it gets easier.  People are catching on to the idea that it doesnÕt make sense to get an apple from Chile when you can have an apple from ten miles away in upstate New York.    Brooklyn Grange are growing not even a mile and a half away from us here, on a roof.  It really is the way things were done fifty years ago, eighty years ago, and weÕve just gotten away from it.  IÕm more optimistic than IÕve ever been about the local sourcing movement.    My approach and opinion to everything I do is that the moment you wake up and donÕt feel challenged is the moment that everything fails.  I try to challenge myself with the smallest thing every day, and think that the smallest things can be the biggest challenges.  Biggest achievement I would say itÕs that weÕve managed to develop a group of 100 or 150 people who eat here once, twice, three times a week.  To me thatÕs completely amazing.  You can come in here on a Friday night and be sitting next to someone you ate with last Thursday or Friday, to me that blows my mind.    It was never set but I definitely feel like one of the  most positive things you can feel in a restaurant is when you can see the same faces all the time, thatÕs what IÕd say is our greatest achievement.   