Karen Fitzgerald has been a resident of Queens since 1981, after moving to New York from Marathon County, Wisconsin. In this interview Karen shares her experience as an artist raised on a dairy farm, settling down in an urban area, surrounded by art culture. Queens has evolved over the years increasingly becoming home to the high-rise luxury apartments that now tower her modest-sized art studio where the interview took place. Karen has been a consultant of arts-in-education for over 30 years and often works in partnership with libraries in neighboring boroughs for older-adult art programming.


DG: Alright. My name is Donea Gomez, I am here with Karen Fitzgerald at her art studio in Queens Located at -

KF: 3151 12th street Upper Long Island City. 

DG: Today is October 25th 2018, Thank you for taking the time to talk with me. So let’s start from the beginning. What brought you to Queens?

KF: Ok, I came to Queens 37 years ago and I was 25 year old at the time, and I came because I was a professional artist, and I knew I didn’t want to stay in the town where I had graduated from with my undergraduate degree. And so a year or to after that some friends of mine from that city- it was Milwaukee, said well, you know let all move to New york together! So four of us came, and we found a loft right off of Queensboro bridge and we lived there. I was there not quite a year and then I met someone and we moved together into a loft two blocks from here so this has been, you know, artistically my home base for 36 years.

DG: Well, so you moved here for artistic reasons, right, what brought you particularly to this area? Cause I see that you lived in Long IC astoria and woodside area that’s very close.

KF: When we came out, we bunked with a friend of ours who lived in the Brooklyn Navy Yard and at the time that was a totally undeveloped neighborhood, it was pretty wild. It was about a 10 minute walk from the F stop on J street which is right now, you know, prime dumbo real estate, grand central. But there was not much there when we came. It was 1981 you know, things were very rough on the subways. Anyway we sleep on his living room floor for 3 or 4 weeks while we hunted for a place to live. And we thought we all would do better if we got a loft together. So we used this strategy of hunting where we just walked north from his place. So we walked through williamsburg, we walked through greenpoint, we basically followed the river north- some main streets and we really hunted for a place we could afford. There were a lot of awful places we saw -we’re like we don’t thinks so- and at the time the landlords were really they didn’t care if you were a bunch of artists and you were gonna live there. They didn’t care. They didn’t care if you didn’t have heat on the weekends, they just - there were no loft laws there was none of that. You just came you got a place you paid the rent and you lived there. 

So we found this place it was the top floor of a factory on 9th street right off of 59th street bridge and we moved in and it was cut up into rooms that had been some kind of- I don’t know I guess it was busted for- they were making some kind of drugs there. So they busted everybody and kicked em out and I think the landlord was left hanging with a lease we didn’t find that out for a fact but we heard rumors that it was like a meth lab or something like that. We don’t know. We don’t really know. But anyway we moved in, we had to build a shower in the bathroom, we had to build a kitchen so we were working - we got a refrigerator, we worked with hot plates for quite a long time. There literally was no heat in the winter time so it was a very cold winter. There was no heat on the weekends but there was heat 9-5 so monday through friday it was nice and toasty 9-5 so by the time Saturday morning rolled around it was chilly. But we lived there, put our bikes in the- we had a great big locking door, we put our bikes in the foyer and lock em to the stairwell. I mean it was kind of rough and tumble but we each had a glorious studio. I had a very tiny place to sleep but I had this really beautiful studio overlooking midtown and it was just terrific. Very exciting. You could imagine im 25 years old i’m in New York I’m living my dream I have a part time job i’m painting all the time and it was like OK, here we go! 

So after we found that place and after I left that place I wasn’t interested in like oh let’s discover brooklyn- so when it was time to find a place with my at the time boy friend we just did the same thing, we went up river. and we found this place we used to go to a pizza place down in Long Island City. Guy that owned it his name was Sal, and Sal knew everybody. He was italian, my boyfriend was Italian so we would go in there and have pizza and beer or whatever. So when we were ready to move we just said “Sal, you know of any place?” “Yeah! Go talk to Newman, Newman’s got a place,” and so I mean we didn’t really look that hard, Newman had a place and we went and it was very reasonable rent, it was 100 ft deep by 25 ft wide. And so we built a living space in the back again we built- it was raw space we built a loft bed, a bathroom, a kitchen, we got a new refrigerator, we had a beautiful garden in the back. And there was property on the left and on the right of the building that was connected and they connected it in the back with a chain link- they had guard dogs back there. And so we felt really safe because here we are we’re in this “U” we’re surrounded in the back by guard dogs, you’re not gonna get in the front of the building it was very secure. We were very happy there. I think we stayed there, we got married while we were living there maybe 2 or 3 years and then wind started to change around real estate I think it was ‘85. I finished my masters degree when we were there and it really started- real estate started to change then- it was the mid 80’s ‘85-’86. I think it was the fall after my graduation that he came by and raised- tripled our rent- we were like “nah we’re not gonna pay that.” 

So we were both working at a cab company- I was driving cab- he was fixing cabs that’s how we met. It was over in woodside and so we said well you know what if we split housing and work space and we get an apartment close to work so Paul is his name- didn’t have to go far for work- he could just basically walk to work- I could do the same and then so we split living and studio and I found a studio exactly a block away from here and I was there for 22 years.
And we got a house in astoria- I mean an apartment in astoria four room apartment and then after awhile we started a family and when our son was not quite 2, we decided to buy a house. We actually wanted to buy a house before we had a family but that didn’t work out. It was kind of tough. Interest rates were really high but Paul’s parents were here and they were very interested in having access to their grandchild- the only one at the time. So they were very supportive and helpful and actually my mother in law said well around the corner from our apartment about 2 blocks away there’s a house for sale why don’t you call the realtor and go look at it! It was an estate sale and we offered and they said well if you come up- I can’t remember if it was 2 or 5 thousand dollars, the house is yours and we were like really/ we were shocked but we closed on it and that’s it. We’ve had that house, lived in that house, raised three kids there, I was in the studio a block away for 22 years and then that building was sold to an islamic religious group they were fundamentalists, they put a school in the building. I think we were there for about 4 years after the building was sold and then one day they just asked us all to leave- it was very uncomfortable. We were all ready to leave by the time they wanted us to leave. And so I was on the 3rd floor and there was a business on the 2nd floor and when they asked us to leave I went down and talked to the business and said do you guys know where you’re gonna go? There were 5 artists on the 3rd floor, myself included and they said well no we really don’t know where we’re gonna go. I said ok, so I went- I knew a lot of people in the neighborhood because I’d been in the neighborhood a long time at that point. I don’t remember who suggested I go see Jimmy, but Jimmy was another stand-by Italian guy who’d lived in this neighborhood his whole life and so I went to see Jimmy.

He was just right around the corner had this wonderful dog- him and his buds used to sit outside the little deli a block away with Rocky was the dog’s name and they would buy rocky coffee, Rocky always had to have his coffee- anyway Jimmy said yeah go see Hans. Hans has a building on 12th street it’s right around the corner. So I thought ok so I went walked around the corner, can’t miss the building- that’s this building- and the door was up so I walked in and called “Hello, Hello?” and Hans was there he’s of German- he’s a German guy and he had just sold his business and so I asked him I said is your upstairs for rent? How big is it? He kind looked at me like really? Are you crazy? But we came up and it was pretty rough. It had teeny tiny little windows, it was a mess and he said give me some time i’m gonna to renovate it and then you can have it. I said “really?” and he said, “yeah,” I said, “OK how much time?” Because I think we were on a tight schedule, he said, “give me a couple weeks.” So I would drive by all the time, meanwhile I started to clean out my studio and I thought I’m not gonna be a gullible person. I’m a New Yorker now, this guy is really not gonna fix this place up it’s gonna be a dump, I should just keep looking. So I did. But one day I was driving down Broadway and at the time all the buildings were low, you could see over and I looked over and I was like oh my god there’s huge windows in the back of Hans’s building- he had put these windows in. So I drove around the front and was like look at that! the windows are 4ft by 6ft and he put 7 of them in. So the space, it’s East-West, its beautiful light. The previous windows were probably a foot by 2 feet. They were teeny tiny and so I was like well he’s keeping his word! So I stopped in and he said yeah come on up I’ll show you what we’ve been doing and I just about - I was floored when I walked in. He had lowered the ceiling to put in a new ceiling, he put in central air conditioning which i’d never had- he put in this beautiful kitchen with granite countertops, gorgeous new cupboards, new bathrooms, I mean he- new flooring, all new heating and he had fixed up downstairs also. I don’t quite remember the exact time line but I told the guy and I said we should take that building together. And so I had Jeff who is one of the partners downstairs- I introduced him to Hans to negotiate because I thought the space here is about 1000 sq feet the space downstairs is 4500 square feet its huge, plus they have a huge backyard so they negotiated a very favorable lease and we all moved in. So- worked out!

DG: Yeah, That’s crazy, you got lucky I guess! you found people!

KF: Yeah, the universe is watching out for us.

DG: So the transition to becoming a New Yorker, that was pretty natural I guess it came right, or?

 KF: Think there’s a certain kind of energy you have when you’re in your 20’s. I mean my kids are in their 20s now and I can see that same energy. It’s different than when you’re middle aged but I can remember, I had a series of weird jobs before I started working at the cab company. I didn’t want a full time job- my job was being an artist so I just wanted something I can support myself with and I got a job on Canal Street working with -they called them jobbers. But they were companies that bought and resold things connected with the fashion industry so this jobber was a leather dealer and he would buy lots of leather and then resell them. That’s what he did. I can’t remember what I did at the job I think I lasted 2 about months and then I got a job as an administrative assistant to an insurance salesman. I was in the 666, 5th avenue building I think I lasted there about 3 or 4 months, not very long. I wasn’t cut out for that kind of office work- I mean I could do the work but I just didn’t like that you had to dress right, you had to wear high heels. 
And the job I had in Wisconsin before I came here was a third shift job, and it was part time- I drove truck for the Milwaukee Sentinel, delivering bundles of newspapers to kids who had paper routes. And I was what’s called a relief manager. So the managers needed days off so I would come in and do their- take care of their carriers and I think I worked for like, worked with 3 managers or something like that and it was a really fun job because it was third shift it paid great. I mean I think I made 7.50 an hour in 1980 which was really a lot of money then. I don’t know what minimum wage was back then it was probably like a dollar 80 an hour or something but different times. So I thought well I really liked that driving job, why don’t I get- why don’t I look for a job driving cause I really would like to learn the city better. So I saw this Ad in a newspaper for drivers for private car service and I thought I bet I could do that. I went in, they interviewed me they said “yeah! You got A3 license?” I was like, “uh no.” They said, “well get one and come back when you got it.” So I went to Staten Island, I must’ve done my research to find out who gives these licenses, I had to take a road test but they gave me a cab license and so I went back and they hired me and I worked I think I drove for maybe 4 years, 4 or 5 years but the cab job funded my Masters of Fine Arts Degree from Hunter, and it funded most of my Masters of Education Degree from Teachers College. So that was like 1983 to 1990. I also dispatched for a while, which I was terrible at. But it was really fun. I learned New York, I always drove 2nd and 3rd shift, I would drive like Friday night and Saturday night from 6pm to 6am and Thursday night I drove from 4 o’clock to midnight or something like that. It was a minimal amount of time on a job and it was really fun. Met all kinds of crazy people, there’s this woman who would call us up in the summertime cause she had insomnia and she would ask us to drive her out to river head cause she had a diner out there she really liked. So they had a code for this call of this woman going to Riverhead, I don’t remember what the code was but I think I got her 2 or 3 times. She was a little loony but she paid cash, and it was like she just wanted to get in the car and go somewhere when it was hot out.

DG: That’s cool. So you said teaching, you went to Teaching College.

KF: I did. I got a degree in Masters in Education. I purposefully did not take my test to become state certified because I thought if I did that, my family would never leave me alone until I got a full time teaching job and there would be no more studio time and so I thought I’ll just teach part time I will find gigs. I tried to get college work. I adjuncted for a little while but there was also at the time a Nason organization and new approach to teaching where arts processes were taught integrated with subject content so arts ‘in’ education is the way it was defined and I was asked liked three months into teaching for a small organization in South East Queens. I was asked to pilot a project for the New York State Council in the Arts and I really liked it. I took to it like a duck to water I guess and it became something that was easy to do easy to balance work time, studio time, family time, so I’ve been a consultant in the realm of education for 30 something years.

DG: So can we talk a little about about How Queens has affected your growth as an artist and how this community has changed?

KF: There’s an organization called Long Island City artists incorp. Which I was a part of for a long time I sat on their board for a while. I don’t really do much work with them anymore but the reason I bring them up- they have probably been around for 35 maybe close to 40 years. But they were like the main organization that gave visibility to artists who were living and working in Western Queens. And so they were a great group to network with, show with, all kinds of stuff. The Queens Council in the Arts has also been very accessible and very supportive of all of its artists, not just visual artists. And so there was a kind of accessibility in Queens that allowed you to function as a professional artist, get support, collaborate with others and grow professionally. And plus you were in New York City so you had the access to the market place in whatever way you wanted to pursue that access. So I think Queens was for me, a very great haven. It was a place to really mature as an artist, to be recognized as a professional artists, and to really have a rich community of other artists around me. It’s been an incredible place to live and there’s all kinds of very well recognized and famous artists that are from here. Two blocks away is the Isamu Noguchi garden museum. I remember when that opened. I remember meeting him at the opening of that place. Nobody was- it was a small opening, people in the art world who knew him came, some local artists came, but I was living two and a half blocks from this museum when he put it together and renovated and opened it. It was amazing. I was like I thought this is so cool, this is close to where we live, it’s very cool. I went to- Paul and I went to parties at Mark di Suvero’s studio which is right by the Astoria ferry now. He used to open up- I think one of the parties we went to was on July 4th. He opened up his studio and had neighbors come in and a the time he was putting together the Socrates Sculpture park which is a block away. Without these building there you can actually see it. So he was very interested in building relationships in the community so he hired a lot of people from the projects. This neighborhood is bookended by two major housing projects. One is right down by the 59th street bridge, it’s a very large housing project, and then one is right up here at the end of Astoria Boulevard. And so back in the early 80’s, Vernon Boulevard was a scary place because there was a lot of traffic between the projects and there was a lot of poverty along the boulevard, it wasn’t developed. So for him to build a sculpture park and hire people from the projects that were living in poverty and build relationships with them was a really brilliant thing to do. His park was never once violated. There was never any graffiti, there was never any vandalism, there was never any of that, and that’s because of how he brought it into the community. And so that was like my community. And that was a major thing. It was- I don’t think I ever benefitted professionally from knowing di Suvero, I never like knocked on his door and said, “can you recommend me for a grant? Can you help me get into a gallery?” it wasn’t like that. It was just that they were there, I would go to the park and everybody had dogs, they love dogs, and we would just visit. It’s like a neighborhood. So it was cool.

DG: So can we talk about how this area, Long Island City has evolved over the years into what it is today with the high buildings, what it was like before?

KF: So, I was born and raised on a dairy farm in central Wisconsin and that background has always made me very sensitive to, and aware of any kind of garden. And so when I first moved into this neighborhood, when Paul and I were living on 31st Avenue, I used to walk up to the subway which is like a 15 minute walk, and I would go by all of these houses that were- Italians were living in them and there would be a house, and an empty lot- a house, and an empty lot. Or it would be two houses joined and empty lots on either side and all the Italians had fruit trees and fig trees, and tomatoes and gardens and I would love the walk because it’s like oh you planted a plum tree this year or oh! Lots of pumpkins this year and oh! They must be making wine- there’s all these empty wine crates outside. It was like- it resonated with me as a community of people who had gardens. But then as the real estate thing started to change, and the older Italians died off, they sold those empty lots and built. And so gradually over like 10 years, 15 years, I saw all those gardens get paved over and built over, and now there’s only a few of them left. And I saw if a house was a wood-frame house, it would get torn down and a 3 story house would get put in its place so a lot of minor development going on. And then about 6 years ago, the more major developments started happening, so now we’re looking at- like right behind me out this window you can see a 19 story apartment building. That was the first major structure that went up. Next door to it is a L shaped factory that I think is 6 stories high. It used to be the Somer Piano Company. And they renovated that into luxury lofts and so that was like 12 or 15 years ago and then it took a few more years but then the major development really started to happen fast so in the last 2 or 3 years, its starting to feel like you go down an avenue or a street and you’re in a canyon cause its all these tall housing buildings and I think a lot of that was- Bloomberg made that possible. There’s a lot of tax abatements. I like going to see open houses I mean if a big building’s gonna go up in my neighborhood, I want to go see what it looks like so I’ll go to open houses, just take the literature, just find out. There is nothing about any of these structures that is helping the housing crisis in the city. It’s all development for young people to share apartments with- I mean apartments, a one bedroom apartment is renting for $3500 a month! So if you’re a young married couple, you’re spending really a lot of your income on rent. And the apartments aren’t very big! So there are some condos going up but most of what’s happening in like a four block ring of this studio is rentals. High-rise rentals. I don’t know, I think it’s going to- it’s going to be a challenge for the administrators in this city to hold on to their artistic population. Cause not everybody can afford to buy a pier and turn it into an art studio and then make a 5 acre sculpture park adjacent to it. Not everybody has that level of income and ability so something’s gonna have to be thought of about how can we hold onto our artists. Especially those of us that need some square footage to make stuff in. Astoria is packed with artists right now. Some artists have studios in their apartments. I’ve seen articles in the New York Times about the block where all the stand-up comics live. The block where all the people who are in acting live. There are dance companies out here. There are cutting edge theatre companies out here, the Chocolate Factory for example, down in Long Island City. They just bought a building last year closer to me, maybe a quarter mile away- a third of a mile, something like that. They paid over a million for the building and its a raw factory, so they have to raise the money to make it into those stages that they want. But I think they’re gonna have more than one stage in there. Sheila Lewandowski is the- one of the executive directors of the company. She’s proved over and over again, what a fundraising genius she is. So they’ll make it happen.

DG: So as this area has evolved, did you experience any hardships, challenges, anything that kinda affected you in a negative way, almost, that you had to overcome?

KF: Yeah. I had a MeToo moment, which I’m not gonna tell the story of it because it was very personal and it was life-threatening, but I recovered and I was able to go on. But yeah it really affected, I would say, well into my thirties, so a good ten years. It was a troublesome thing. And it was just part of like part and parcel of being here. I don’t know how else to explain it but at the time, the city was very, very supportive. They had programs for things like what happened to me, and actually, that’s the thing I remember from that incident, was the kind of support services that I had. I had wonderful counselors, wonderful. Just long time support. So that was terrific. I think that the thing that happened after that event, was that I pushed myself- I was like I should really get a Masters degree at this point. I pushed myself to go into directions that would be proactive against that event. 

DG: Is there anything really special, interesting about this community surrounding you, anything about the local history that is notable?

KF: I think the thing that’s really special about my studio building which is you know you can see its a modest structure. It’s not like a very large studio building, such as what’s down by the Long Island City Arts Center where there are hundreds of artists renting inside a building, it’s not like that at all there’s just a very small community of us. But one of the primary partners downstairs got a degree in art from Cooper Union and he developed this business with his friend, created an amazing business that supports their families but Jim (Pignetti) is a very community minded person and so he is constantly reaching out to people in the community. There’s a group of artists that come to this building because of Jim. There is a welding, they do welding in the backyard when the weather is decent and there’s a local sculptor who comes and welds frequently and his wife is a painter and she will come and work in the backyard and paint. And so there’s just this- He’s also known in the realm of poetry so there are local poets that conviene here as well. It’s his special idea about community that- you don’t want to live in isolation, you don’t want to just have your family, have your job, have your business or whatever it is and that’s your life. He’s a very more the merrier kind of person and I feel like we have known each other for a really long time now and have been in this building together for 13, or 14 years already. We’ve done projects together because I had that same kind of feeling like the more the merrier. The more people there are the more opportunities  you can share, the more things you can do. And I think that that’s something special about this kind of little nook, this little neighborhood. 

DG: So what about your inspiration for all of this?

KF: All of it comes from that time I spent as a young person growing up in a rural place. It was not at all urban. We were 10 miles from town and my parents had lived- they were raised rurally, they had lived through the depression so their mindset was, the good thing about a farm is you’re never gonna starve, you’re never gonna freeze to death because you always have the means to produce your own food, to keep your house warm and so there was this whole kind of sense of living that was all about living with the natural world. When I was a kid, it wasn’t uncommon for us to get huge snow storms, we have pictures of after the plow went out of the yard, the banks of snow are like 20 feet high. It was 30 below 0 for a week at a time. It was a tough place to live but my dad was a dairy farmer and the tradition from his family and from previous generations is that your children when they got to be 8 or 9, helped. You had chores, you took care of things. My dad always had horses my mom love riding so she had a riding horse. When I was 7 my aunt gave- there were 4 siblings in our family, gave the four of us a pony and my siblings immediately turned their back on this pony because he was starved half is life and had gotten mean. Anyway all of that is the core of what I produce. It’s about the energy of the natural world. It’s about how a person relates to the natural world, is connected to the natural world. And so the kinds of things that are present in my work all connect back through one thread of another to the natural world. Whether it’s working with the idea of the moon, this is a new moon, this is also a new moon but this one’s not done. The work is all about addressing that envelop of energy that we live in as part of earth and I wouldn’t have a clue about that if not for the way I was brought up. So that’s how the package is tied together.

DG: So the sphere is very much representative of the world and the connection.

KF: It does carry that connotation of the planet the roundness of the earth, but it also is about the unity of things, it is about the fact that no matter where you look at energy, the circle is the most efficient, most perfect form and so, the circle is- it conveys that quality just by its form. By what it is. And its connectivity also, and circles do that beautifully. They represent that quality of all things connected and interconnected.

DG: Let’s talk about your relationship with the Queens Library.

KF: Oh great! I love the Queens Library, I think libraries in general but especially the Queens Library in particular- are the epitome of our democracy. They are our democracy on its feet, in action, going forward. I have always liked the library, I think about 5 or 6 years ago, an  organization in the Bronx called Lifetime Arts started to do programming for people who are 50 plus years old and I was contacted through the network that I have doing the consulting teaching I have, and asked if I wanted to be on their teaching artist roster so I said sure. I think we had to do a lesson plan or a demo or something that demonstrated our understanding of how working with elderly populations was different from working in other teaching circumstances. So I started to work with libraries outside of Queens. I went to Brooklyn, Utrecht Avenue somewhere way down in deep Brooklyn. I did some programming there, I did programming in New York, in Murray Hill, and then one day I got a call from a woman at the Queens Library, her name was Madlyn Schneider and she said, “I see you’re a teaching artist from Queens and you’re on the Lifetime Artists roster, I’d like to talk to you about doing a program with the library.” And I was like “Sure!” So we did our first program, I designed a program called Drawing to See, and it was designed especially for older participants. People who had never drawn, people who had maybe had a class or two when they were young or remembered it from school. And from there we just took off. We get along very well, there’s kind of this synergy between us and so she started to apply for grants and got a lot of funding to expand creative aging programming which is what it’s called throughout the Queens Library system I recommended a person or two that she could work with and she has done an amazing job of putting this stuff on its feet throughout libraries. Not every single library has a program but people who are really interested in the program, she makes sure they get programming. And it’s not stand-alone programming, these are like 9 sessions long, they’re 2 hours, it’s serious high-quality creative arts programming. And so I just have met amazing library managers, I met the CEO several times, he used to be the chancellor of the New York City department of education so I was very aware of who he was. What an amazing person, it’s like- it’s such a well run system. People work so hard to have the library be a place where everybody can go and find something that is for them. And I’m never not impressed with the library, never. I mean every time I do a program, I meet somebody who is doing an amazing job helping people in the libraries. I just couldn’t be happier having the kind of relationship that I have with the library. 

DG: So what does Queens mean to you now, after it’s changes and high-rise buildings and after you’ve seen everything compared to what it was before?

KF: I think Queens is changing really fast, just like everything is changing really fast. I think New York is changing very quickly, I think that Queens continues to be a really, really dynamic place to live. Amazing people live here. People that the world will never know about, but that are amazing anyway, that have big hearts, kind hearts, all of the little neighborhoods that I have gotten to know- for example, Sunnyside. Sunnyside Gardens, that’s where my mother-in-law lives and it’s changed a lot since my husband left his family home. Since he grew up. We’re middle-aged now, so it was a long time ago but having his mother still in the house where he was born. And going back there all the time and seeing the neighbors change and leave and pass away, I just am impressed with the people of Queens. I think they’re intelligent, compassionate, good people. It doesn’t mean there aren’t some creeps in the cart, that’s the way it is all over. But I just think that people who live in Queens, they know they live in a dynamic city, but I think that they also have this feeling about this borough that it’s home. It’s the base. Home base. So I think it’s a really amazing place. I don’t know what people say that’s negative about Queens these days but I don’t feel negative things. I feel like it’s an amazing borough. I mean it’s huge. I think the stat is that it’s the most condensed place for language diversity in the nation and I think people do a terrific job at getting along with one another. One of my consultancies that’s been going on for a long time now, is I am an artist in residence and a public school in central Queens it’s about two block from the court house. And I’ve been at that school for 18 years. Unbelievably. But what i’ve seen happen in that school is there is such a diversity of kids and I remember when we started this anti-bullying program, the system embraced it. I don’t even remember what year it was, probably 2006 somewhere in there, and the school took it to heart and diversified programming around it so that kids really get that message of “you treat others the way you wanna be treated.” That’s like the golden rule at the school and everyday the kids are talking about what choice can I make to either help somebody or treat others the way I wanna be treated. And I’ve seen the school change in the last 6 years when there were kids often times in the assistant principal’s office, behavior problems, it doesn’t happen much anymore. Because they have peer mediation, they know about bullying, they’re literally taught about what is bullying and how do you prevent it, and when I see that, I just think, that’s impressive. That is impressive where you can take this broad range of a population with all kinds of different backgrounds, a lot of kids are- english is their second language, their parents came 5 years ago or whenever. They’re new arrivals, they’re new to this country and they’re doing amazing things at school that help them see we are one in this country. We have this unity. But I just I don’t go to that school every single day of the week, I go twice a week. But I just am proud of what they do there. It’s like it’s so real and it’s so important. And the news likes to say what’s bad about the department of education and we can find a lot of stuff but we can also find amazing things. 
DG: What was the name of that school?
KF: It’s public school 99.
DG: Did you have anything else you wanted to add?

KF:  I don’t know- I can’t think of anything right now- I mean it’s interesting to talk about all this stuff- I guess i’ve been around a lot time, that’s okay. 

DG: That’s wonderful, it really is. Super interesting to listen to how this community has changed, the area, it’s a shame you can’t see more like you used to. It’s still beautiful.

KF: Yeah, well if you go down to the street and look down the avenue like look down Broadway, you can see across the water and if you go down 31st ave and look, you can see across the water but it’s just I guess development is inevitable. I just wish that it was more equitable because I think right now it’s not. 

DG: I guess that about covers it, thank you!
KF: Thank you! It’s great to talk about all this stuff.

