My name is Elizabet Flores, and my place of work is La Bomboniera Marylu.  We usually are like a party planner.  We can help you with the first communions, the christenings, any kind of party like birthdays, weddings, kind of thing.  The thing that we do is that we help you with the invitations, favors, decoration of the hall…anything that you need for the party.    Even if you just want to do a small party at your house we can just rent the chairs, tables, and make something nice at your party.  And we can do a touch with a small cake if you want.  We just work with the Dominican cakes.  I am from Mexico.  But we have a lady who makes Dominican cakes for us.  And then we are working with her for seven years.  And I think she makes really good, because people like a lot the Dominican cake, because around the area on 30th Avenue they just sell like Italian cake, French…so that’s the only place that I think has the Dominican cake.    [The difference is] the paste.  It should be like a pound cake, and the filling doesn’t have cream, it just has like a guava paste, or pineapple or strawberry or chocolate.  That’s the fillings that they have there.  We usually try to help them with…say if you are planning an event for a couple of months.  So we say give me your idea so we can work with that.  Or, “I just want to spend a certain quantity of money, I don’t want to be over”.  So we just try to have everything done with the money that you have.    The store has been here since 2004.  So we have been here eight years.  It’s a funny story.  This store I think it has about two years before I get it.  I was the cleaning lady of the previous owner.  So she get married and she say one day I want to sell my business because I don’t want to think about it no more.  So I think ok, I’ll have to look for another job.  But then I was talking with a couple of friends and my family and I talked to my lady and I said “why don’t you give me the opportunity to buy your business?”.  And she helps me a lot.  Because I didn’t speak English at that time.  She was helping me for four months, showing me.  And I was trying to learn the most that I can.  Because her husband bought another business in Florida.  So she has to go.  And I was like “oh my God I have to learn!”  But what I can tell you…is I can’t believe I was just the people who helped her at her house and now I own her business.  And after eight years, like once a year she calls me.  “Elizabet, how’s everything, you doing good?”  So I’m really happy.   What I most enjoy is talking to the people.  I like to be involved with every customer like my party.  In that way I think they are going to be happy and they are going to come back.  Because in the time that I have been here I try to keep all of my customers.  So, it was a very hard time when I started, but now I can tell you but thanks God, everything is ok.    I have my sister and my mom, they are the ones that are always helping me here.  That’s why I like my job.  I can work with them.  And I can be face to face with the customers, so I can help them.  If I don’t have what they want, we just ask for a little time and we try to get it.   Yes, we have [a lot of suppliers].  And even if we don’t have the things, because a lot of things, especially the Spanish people, if they want something from our country, so we try to get it from Mexico and bring it here.  And we learn.  Because the orthodox people, for the Greek, we try to do it on Easter, we do the kind of stuff that they have for Easter, the candles and things like that.  Now on Christmas for the Ecuadorian people, we try to do it because they make big parties for the holy boy.  So we are involved with their traditions…they do it actually the whole month.  So they do it like the party for the holy boy, and they make like invitations, they have a mass, they have a reception and the traditional dances.  So we help them with that.  So we learn from them and then we can help them.   Just like three weeks ago we have a client, that she brings us a friend who comes from London.  So she told me ok, I need this, I need that, how can I do it, because she said she has a small business like this, but over there it’s a little bit hard to get it.  So we tried to help her and have everything in one week so she can go.  So after she said, “ok I want to pay with my credit card”.  I said “ok”, and she gave me the card and I said “ok let’s swipe it” and she said “no in London you don’t have to swipe, you just put it in front of the machine and it has a chip”.  So I told her I’m not ready with that but anyway I’m going to help you.  So I was doing that, and now I have it.   So that is a good thing that you didn’t know before, that you did it.  So every time you learn with the customers.  If you learn with the first time, then the next time you know what they want, what they need, for what they use.  And next time you can help somebody else.   The lady who had the store before had the store for many years but it wasn’t here, it was in Roosevelt.  She moved it to here.  But then when she got married that’s why she didn’t want the business no more, because she had to move to Florida.   I think the Bombonieras[are my favorite product in the store].  The ones that we wrap.  And they are like almonds.  Because that ones you can use for any occasions.  So I like them…because if someone says you know what I need something…for any occasion, you know that you can just put the five almonds, that mean good luck, which I didn’t know.  That’s a French, Italian and Greek tradition so I didn’t know that.  So when you tell the customers, they say “you didn’t know what that means?!”  That means good luck.  You always have to offer five almonds in a tully wrap.  You wrap in an organza, and then you print a ribbon like “happy christening”, “your wedding”, “happy anniversary”…any occasion.   They are my favorite favor.   I have two children.  You know what happened, now they have grown up they say I know this cartoon, I know that one.  So it’s really difficult, because they say “oh mommy, I want this princess,” and you know you have to have everything done for your daughter.  And usually when I have a party for my two kids I try to invite some of my customers so that they can take a look and see how we do it.   The difficult time…sometimes if I don’t want to lose a customer and they have a party far away, that’s the difficult part.  Because sometimes I have to go.  So if let’s say we are here in Astoria and they want to make the party in Connecticut, I have to plan to have everything on time, I have to make the time, and don’t forget anything, because you don’t know where you’re going to find the thing you are going to.  But I’ll do it.  Because I know that if I do it once, they will keep coming and coming and coming.  And one good customer, if you do a good job, one customer gives you another one and another one.   Here in Astoria you see we have a lot of Greek people, we have Italian people, and of course the Spanish people.  So we have all them…so I’ll try to do it for everyone.   If I don’t understand exactly what they want I just say “can you explain again” and I’ll do it.  Of course!  