Francois Gracia speaks about his life in Haiti and his early fascination with art. He discusses his continued artistic career while living in Haiti. He goes onto talk about his eventual migration into Queens, New York. He is speaking in front of an audience about his artwork and life. This interview was conducted alongside four of his paintings, and he then elaborates on each painting during the post interview Q & A session. 00:12:47-  Francois speaks about his uncle Pierre who was a painter and a sculptor. He speaks about how when he was young he would sit on hours in his uncleÕs studio watching his uncle create art. Dr. Gracia talks about how his uncle was a major inspiration for his own artwork. 00:14:00-  Dr. Gracia talks about his first painting while in Haiti. His first painting was of a wall of his house and ended up giving it to one of his cousins. He describes an artist living near his auntÕs house that wanted to buy one of his paintings. However, all of his work was lost due to a flood that occurred in Haiti.  00:15:46-  Dr. Gracia recalls how his family and friends encouraged his art, specifically his neighbor Marseilles. Marseilles was also an artist. He would send Francois to paint partitions dividing the houses in Haiti.  00:17:49-  Francois speaks about his aunt getting upset with Marseilles who paid him the very low wage of fifty cents per painted partition. Francois explains that he was learning the trade with Marseilles and would use his pocket money for the movies.  00:18:39-  Dr. Gracia talks about how his family decided to send him to Spain to study medicine. He thought he was going to study art and culture, but his aunt told him to study medicine. His aunt told him that after he obtained his diploma he can study anything he wants.  00:19:48-  Dr. Gracia talks about the turbulent political climate in Haitian before his departure for Spain. He recalls Fidel CastroÕs successful overthrow of Pres. Batista who was backed by the United States. He discusses how United States government was pressuring Haitian president Duvalier to organize leaders from other South American countries to unite against CubaÕs new communist leadership and expel Castro.  00:21:00  Dr. Gracia recalls that students were not happy with DuvalierÕs autocratic government. Duvalier retaliated by cracked down on student activists and other free thinkers. Dr. Gracia went to live with his uncle in the north side of Haiti to stay away from the dangers of being targeted as a student under DuvalierÕs regime. 00:22:42-  Dr. Gracia discusses how he was not directly involved with the protests. He discusses the operation of socialists groups that printed and distributed pamphlets. 00:23:49-  Dr. Gracia discusses the narrative behind his artwork. He recalls when his philosophy class was cancelled due to Pres. Duvalier shutting down all schools over fear of people kidnapping his son. He discusses reading The Hobbit and how he did not finish it, and it ended up being on the test.  00:33:00-  He talks about his philosophy test and that he closed his eyes trying to remember what he read about The Hobit. He discusses how he saw a studentÕs test that outlined the Hobit and he said that it all came back to him in a day dream and he could see the book directly from memory.  00:36:10-  He discusses the painting of the virgin Mary  that came to him that day in class and helped him remember the details of the Hobit. When he came to Queens he saw a statue of the Virgin that reminded him of that dream and inspired him to paint her.   00:38:42-  Francois speaks about his studies in Spain, specifically after his microbiology exam. When he went to his wifeÕs exam he was asked to draw by his professor. He kept drawing for him and eventually discussed with his professor to help Francois pay for school. His parents had stopped sending him money and began painting for microbiology. 1968-1974. His professor made a book out of it and that was the first microbiology book strictly in image format. 00:44:10-  Franois begins to discuss his next painting and how he resembles different parts of his history that make him so unique. He discusses his Haitian decent and his ability to cross over two worlds in his paintings. He discusses his painting is a representation of the African diaspora and what the Europeans did to Africans. His painting represents the meeting of Africa and Europe.   00:50:15-  He discusses his relationship with his Haitian family members. The Haitian president invited him and other Haitian artist to make an exhibition at the museum.  He says that even though he left Haiti in 1964, he is mostly inspired by Haitian life and culture.  00:52:00-  After 1969 he could not paint anything. He did not know why he could not paint for that time. He felt that he lost his identity. 00:53:00-  In 1980 he says that he started to do sculptures.  He shows the sculptures to the audience. He explains that he could only do sculptures however when he went to Haiti and returned he started to paint again.  00:55:20-  He discusses a different painting and he explains he tried to make a parallel between Indian chiefs and the hero of Haitian Independence. (Toussant) He discusses the history of the Indian Chief and Toussaint and the similarities they experienced in history.  01:02:00-  He discusses his painting of Lady Liberty holding an eagle. He discusses the painting and its representation of immigrants into the United States. His painting consists of different races and ethnicities that come to the United States. He says Lady Liberty does not care about race or color when accepting immigrants to the United States.     