Teri Graham talks about her childhood home in Jackson Heights, as well as the businesses she remembers frequenting with friends and family. She shares memories of celebrating holidays, such as egg hunting on Easter and the big Sunday school parties that would follow. 00:00:18: Teri, now 55, has lived in her family home on Junction Blvd. since she was four days old. The red brick home with its nice front porch and backyard has been the foundation of their family, with everyone living there at some point. 00:01:30: When she was growing up in the 1960s, her block was on the border of Jackson Heights (predominantly white) and Corona (predominantly black). She got along just fine with all of her white neighbors one street over.  00:02:30: She went to PS 49, then PS 92, and IS 145 for junior high school. Her junior high graduation was at Prospect Theatre in Flushing. She and her friends used to play across the street from home. The boys played different ball games and the girls didn’t play much, but they would have fun on the playground. Teri talks about “roofing” a Spalding ball.  00:04:00: She used to go to Max’s candy store for candy and magazines until Max sold his store to Kelly, who was much nicer. After going to Grace Episcopal Church, she would go buy candy and then hide it in the mailbox because she had a lot of cavities. 00:05:14: A milkman would come deliver milk to the metal box outside her house and pick up the empty bottles. She notes that people did not steal at that time. She talks about the neighbors she remembers and their jobs and shared an anecdote about “Shotgun Annie.” 00:08:00: Crimes were unusual when Teri was growing up. She shares anecdotes about a bank robbery and a mugging that caused a big buzz in the neighborhood.  00:09:17: Teri describes celebrating Easter: the outfits, the services, the Easter egg hunt, and the Sunday school parties.  00:11:24: Instead of trick or treating for herself on Halloween, Teri did it for UNICEF. Her mother used to buy bags and bags of candy, but she notes that people are less open to the idea of trick or treating now. 00:12:27: Teri shares memories of going to the 1964 World’s Fair when she was four years old with her grandmother and cousin. The thing she remembers most is riding the subway. She also remembers seeing bagpipers and not understanding why they were wearing skirts (kilts), as well as the “It’s a Small World” pavilion, which was the best part for her. No matter how much time has passed, Teri still remembers the fair when she sees the Unisphere. She also learned to ice skate in that pavilion. 00:15:08: Teri’s family is full of diehard Mets fans, and she has many memories of the excitement associated with the games, as well as her teaching replacing the student work on the wall with a newspaper article about the Mets winning the World Series in 1969. Her father would sometimes call home and let her mother know to get the kids ready to go to Shea Stadium for a game. Even though she was not a baseball fan, Teri wanted to become a ball girl for baseball or tennis. She shares a story about seeing a celebrity tennis match with her sister when cycling at Flushing Meadows Park.  00:19:38: Teri took ballet classes at a local dance school with her sister, but her father was reluctant to sign a contract because he thought she would end up changing her mind about it, which as it turns out, was the right decision. She talks about her strict Russian dance teacher and having a ballet recital at Carnegie Hall. 00:23:28: In high school, she took photography to get out of taking woodwork and ended up enjoying it. Teri describes herself as pretty academic, while her sister was more athletic. She shares a story about pushing for her friend Grace to be the first girl to play on the boys’ softball team at IS 145, which her sister later joined.  00:26:42: She went to the park on 78th street to play hopscotch because it had a permanently drawn hopscotch board. She and her friends would always be late to class after playing.  00:27:33: Teri remembers Adventurer’s Inn, a small amusement park near Whitestone or College Point, which had some rides and arcade games. You could play all the games for just one quarter, which she enjoyed more than the actual rides. Northridge Stationary is another store with games that she remembers. Teri also remembers ice cream stores such as Frozen Fantasies that had a monster shake that she saved up for. Dragon Seed was the only Chinese food restaurant she remembers from childhood, and she shares memories of that.  00:33:15: For a long time, everything was the same until new stores started coming in. She even notes that because of the lack of diversity in the 60s, a new store where Spanish was spoken was known as the “Spanish store.” There were few Spanish students and Asian students, so much so that the bilingual class was fewer than 10 students and everyone Asian was related to her friend Helen because she had a huge family.  00:39:15: Now, Teri is used to hearing lots of different languages, such as Russian and Hindi because of “Little India” in Jackson Heights. She shares a story about the one Indian boy that she remembers from her school.  00:42:45: Teri doesn’t remember ever experiencing any racial tensions while growing up because the tension at the time was between the smart kids and the less smart. 00:44:55: She went to the Greek festival in Astoria with her friend’s family and experienced the colorful surroundings and new kinds of food.  00:46:10: Teri believes the neighborhood will continue to change. Her mother was a teacher who had never seen a Hispanic PTA president, and now that is something that has happened. She thinks the population will continue to grow in diversity, but notes that the black population has greatly diminished.  