Shavetta grew up in India and moved to New York after getting married in 2002. She has been living with her in-laws in Astoria for twelve years, except for a two year period in which she lived in Corona due to the construction of her home in Astoria. In this interview, Shavetta discusses the changes she has experienced in life since moving from India. She reflects on meeting her husband and getting married soon after, becoming more independent by working, her children’s experiences of being Indian American, and her Hindu practices on special occasions. 00:00:14 Shavetta Gupta has been living in the United States for twelve years. She moved from India three to four months after her marriage because her husband lived in New York. She lives in Astoria with her husband and their two children, as well as her in laws.  00:01:01 She was a stay at home mom until her parents moved from India to live with her. She was able to start working at a bank because her parents could watch her kids while she worked.   00:01:18 Shavetta met her husband through family friend connections. She was excited to learn that he was from the US because she always had fantasies about living in the United States.  00:02:21 They had an arranged meeting at a park and then agreed to marry each other. Within sixteen days, they got married. 00:05:15 Moving to New York was not a great experience for Shavetta because she didn’t have a lot of good people surrounding her. She was bored a lot because she couldn’t do anything except sit around at home while her husband was at work. After she started working herself, many people noticed a huge change in her. She missed the social interactions and events that were a huge part of life in India and missing from her new life.  00:09:34: Shavetta’s husband worked at a bagel store, which was the family business. They later bought a pizza store, followed by a gas station. Due to unsuccessful business partnerships, they sold their businesses and now only own their home, which is a joint family house shared with Shavetta’s in laws.  00:11:07 In India, Shavetta’s house was also shared by her family and their spouses, but she lived out of town as she was getting her degree in accounting.  00:13:45 Shavetta did not get to know many of her neighbors because when she came to the US she could not speak to them in English, despite her English education in India. She learned by traveling alone to her appointments and becoming more independent. 00:21:28 Shavetta’s parents grew more comfortable living in the US when they found other Asian friends, although Pakistani and Nepali, that could speak their language. She considers Astoria to be a mix of people. Although mostly Italians live in her community, she sees many Asians in other parts of the neighborhood. Her children go to a Catholic school, where there are only a handful of Asian students.  00:34:40 Shavetta and her family moved to Corona when their house was under construction. She felt the presence of a social life there more than she did in Astoria. She didn’t enjoy living in the apartment building in Corona because it often had roaches and the commute was not as easy as it was in Astoria. Corona also lacked variety in shopping.   00:41:25: Shavetta’s husband took her on her first subway ride in October of 2002 to show her the Statue of Liberty, but she was in her Indian clothes and was too cold to enjoy herself.  00:42:54: She considers Astoria to be a rich class neighborhood because it is expensive to live there. When their house was under construction, Shavetta and her husband couldn’t rent an apartment in Astoria because the rent costs were too high. That’s why they lived in Corona instead.  00:51:22: Shavetta and her family don’t mind the walk to the temple in the summer, but they can’t attend as much in the colder months because it is fourteen blocks away. Compared to the temples in India, this temple is much cleaner. They also go to the temple for special occasions such as Karva Chauth, Diwali, and birthdays. Karva Chauth is a day when Hindu women fast for their husbands. On Diwali, they decorate the statues in their own home for worship, as well as having sweets and lighting diyas (clay lamps) in the home and at the temple. Shavetta goes to the temple for her husband’s and children’s birthdays, but not her own.   