Elaine Heumann Gurian, born in 1937, lived in Jamaica Estates (1937-1941) and Forest Hills (1941-1949). In 1949, her family moved to Great Neck.  She left the New York area for Boston in 1954.  She is a major leader in the museum world, having served in leadership positions of major American museums.  She is currently a senior advisor to museums and museum systems.  Her father, Ernst Heumann, and mother, Hedi Margot Messer Heumann, were German-Jewish immigrants who came to Queens before World War II. They worked together to save family members from the Holocaust.  Ernst was an owner of Trylon Reality, which built the Trylon Theater and Trylon Block in Forest Hills. He was a builder and sales agent for much of the development of Queens and Long Island before and after World War II.  Elaine’s mother designed the model homes for these developments. Elaine, as a young child, tagged along with her father to many of these building projects.  Elaine learned the ‘business of business’ from her father, but he never could believe that she would be so successful because she was a woman.   00:01:33 Elaine’s father (Ernst Heumann) was born in 1900 in a small village in Germany (Gau Odernheim). The Jews had arrived there during the Spanish migration in 1492 or even prior, with the Roman army. 00: 02:35 The village was very rural with small farms. The Jews were mostly merchants. 00:03:05 The Heumann family had a small plot and grew vegetables for themselves. The father sold cows from town to town. The town was occupied by allied forces and there was real deprivation during and after the First World War. 00.03:55 Ernst Heumann left the town in 1918 and moved to Frankfurt. He lived with his grandmother and was apprenticed to a lace factory as salesman. He did not have a high school degree (Gymnasium). 00.04:56 The hand-made lace industry is destroyed by factory-made lace. Ernst is now apprenticed to a dying industry. There is destructive inflation. He is 24 years old with no future 00:05:43 Ernst leaves for America in 1924 as an adventurer. He is trained as a salesman - that is all he knows. 00:016:16 There is a dichotomy in Germany. The religious Jews are considered peasants by the urban Jews who wish to be modern. Ernst joins the BUND a left wing, hiking, anti-observant organization. To him, Judaism is a culture, not a religion. 00:07:06 Ernst comes to America as a secular Jew, very much a German Jew. 00:07:29 Ernst does not think affectionately of the Polish Jews that he finds in America. He is very conflicted about his relationship to peasants from which he comes. 00:08:01 Ernst comes to NY in 1924 with Fred Haas, a pal. They come to the U.S. to make their fortune in the land of opportunity. They room together. 00:08:39 Ernst has an opportunity to be salesmen with the Loeb Real Estate Company. The company is in Astoria. Loeb is a German Jew. Ernst’s plan is to become rich. How he does it does not matter and real estate presents that opportunity. 00:09:37 Ernst is very smart, a big risk taker, handsome, and a lady’s man. He has the opportunity to be a partner in the building industry. 00:10:02 Later, when Ernst builds the Trylon block, the funding is from her mother’s side of the family, as they are wealthier. He works very hard, has a work ethic, and believes academics are lazy. He is on a track to make money and does make money. 00:10:54 Ernst and his pals originally came to Queens because of economics. They had no money. 00:11:18 Elaine’s mother’s (Hedi Margot Messer Heumann) background was very different. Elaine’s maternal grandfather (Josef Messer) was from the Ukraine, which at the time was part of Poland. Her great-grandfather (Samuel Messer) was a Hassidic rabbi, but Josef wanted to enter the urban fabric. Josef came to the U.S. with his father Samuel Messer.  The Family does not know Samuel’s history, but thinks he becomes the Rabbi in Staten Island.  00:13:02 Grandfather Josef leaves America and out-migrates to Germany and marries Elaine’s grandmother whose family migrated from Holland. He becomes a salesman of celluloid. They become middle class. Hedi is born to an urban middle-class family in Frankfurt.  00:14:28 Hedi is a Polish citizen, because at the time you did not become a German citizen just because you were born in Germany and you were given the citizenship of your father. 00:14:46 During WWI, Joseph was conscripted into the Army. He was not allowed to fight with the Germans and was shipped to the Polish army.  00:15:08 This was a huge deprivation time in German. Hedi and Hedi’s sister get rickets, as there is not enough food. At the end of the war, Joseph comes back, there is inflation, the family loses its money, and he is Polish. Hedi is now unmarriageable, even if she educated and very beautiful.  00:15:58 Hedi comes to America as an au-pair. Because she has good manners, a Gymnasium degree and is beautiful, she works in a very upper-class home – the home of the Clarence Darrow’s partner, Arthur Garfield Hayes. 00:16:34 The wife of the partner is a scarf designer. Hedi becomes a buyer for the wife. (Later she becomes the interior designer of the model homes built by Ernst.)  00:17:20 Hedi leaves this job, takes various jobs, and tries to make her way.  She is not focused on making money. She is displaced by class which lasts forever. She marries down, but later her husband, Ernst, makes money and she rises to her original class which is important to her. Once married, Ernst did not allow her to work. 00:18:19 Ernst founded a German social club, primarily for ‘scooping chicks’.  The Club had various names: German Jewish Club, New World Club, and the Blue Card. The Club published the Aufbau newspaper. The Club held parties, and Hedi, very beautiful, went to these parties. Elaine’s parents met there. (The love letters between Ernst and Hedi were donated to the Leo Baeck Institute.) 00:19:11 The couple tried to figure out a life together.  Ernst loved women, a painful issue for Hedi. But she now has a better and more prosperous life. 00:20:07 Hedi is every bit as smart as Ernst. Prior to marriage, Hedi has many jobs. She invents disposable diapers which she brings to Johnson and Johnson and gets sent away. She starts a washing film negative business. She runs the stock portfolio for the family, but also cooks dinner. She volunteers for Long Island Jewish Hospital and creates a $2M card-buying business. 00:22:46 Elaine’s parents work together to save their German families from the Holocaust. They were saving both sides of the family. The super structure to do this was the already-established social clubs. The clubs become one of the infrastructures for rescuing and helping displaced German-Jews in America. Ernst is one of the founders of the Clubs. 00:24:05 Ernst is interested in expanding his English but Hedi is very isolated by language and by her husband’s refusal to let her work.  According to Elaine, this is a real pity as Hedi is every bit as smart. Hedi becomes more reclusive and more frightened. 00L25:00 This is a very frightening time. No one knows if you are going to be able to save your family.  00:25:14 Ernst and Hedi to write affidavits that say they will be financially responsible for the person. (These affidavits were donated to the Leo Baeck Institute.) The affidavits also state that the person is of good character. Germany has to allow the person to leave and the anti-Jewish laws are becoming increasingly difficult.  00:26:43 The professionals in Germany get ousted from their jobs first (including two of Elaine’s intellectual uncles) so they are actually saved and come to the U.S. earlier. It is primarily the business people who were trapped in Germany.  00:27:46 Soon it gets harder to get into America.  Hedi and her sister are Polish. The U.S. quota system is very anti-Polish but pro-German. The American policy is not helpful. One of the solutions is to have family come into the U.S. as visitors and start to disappear into the system – similar to today. 00:28:40 There was another strategy involving Niagara Falls. You could drive from NY to Niagara Falls and walk across the bridge, stay overnight and immigrate from Canada. 00:29:38 Hedi’s sister gets caught with an invalid visa in Niagara Falls. Luckily the Judge understands that if he sends her back, she will die. He lets her stay.   00:30:00 The refugees come in different swaths. Ernst’s parents come in the 1930’s. They live with their daughter’s family in Washington Heights. Hedi’s family comes to Queens – Astoria, Sunnyside, and Forest Hills. In the 1950’5 some to Great Neck. 00:31:07 The family came to Queens in the 1940’s because it was a different life than Manhattan. It was more family and neighborhood oriented. Kids rode bikes here.  By that time, Ernst is building in Queens.  00:32:10 In 1933, Elaine’s sister is born and it is the Great Depression.  Her parents are stretched thin because they were (also paying to bring the family here.  These are difficult times, as her father pays the upkeep of the family during the depression.   They are living in not very good, rented places in Queens. They are also crowded because different parts of the family are housed in their apartment. 00:33: 07 Elaine is born in 1937, after the worst of the depression. Now they are richer and move to Jamaica Estates and rent a house from the Trump Corporation.  There is much more money. Elaine is born in Harkness Pavilion in Manhattan which is very important to her mother. 00:33:52 In 1940, before moving to Forest Hills, the family moves to Miami Beach and stays for six months. Ernst is trying to build military barracks. Because of the war, all building has stopped in Queens. The barracks project fails and the family returns in 1941 to Forest Hills. 00:34:50 Trylon Reality becomes a single-family sales operation of existing houses and remains that during the war. The Realty Company is housed in the Trylon Block on Queens Blvd. 00:35:27 Elaine’s family moved to 105-15 Queens Blvd, the Normandy, in Forest Hills. The building was surrounded by empty lots. They rented a tiny apartment. 00:36:22 The family built and owned the Trylon Block since 1939 (1/3 owner). The rental income from that block is the basis of the family income until the block is sold in the 2010’s.   00:36:40 Elaine attended PS 3 on 108th Street and PS157. Her age cohort was the forward part of the baby boom. The public-school system of Queens worked on a term A&B basis in half year cycles. The school system began, skipping children six months ahead from A to B, without any warning in order to overcome overcrowding.  Hedi would not attend open school night. When children were skipped, the teachers were often angry and punitive, because the children were not prepared.  00:38:34 There were very small toilets (for babies) in PS 3 and Elaine defecated in her pants because she thought the toilet was not for that purpose.  She was also very messy. Her mother took her out of kindergarten, and let he play mostly unsupervised and not go to the rest of the kindergarten year.  She played with boys outside throughout her childhood. She was a tom boy, playing in the open, unbuilt areas. Hedi was an absent mother; she stays in the house. The most important person to Hedi is her sister, Gladys (Ron Cahn’s mother). The sister dies early in 1949, and Hedi is bereft forever. 00:40:33 Elaine was skipped three times and graduated high school at 16. She moved to Great Neck at age 12 and was put in remedial classes.  She was learning disabled, but never diagnosed. She graduates without distinction. 00:41:40 Her father owned the Trylon Block, which included the famous Trylon Theater. Her father’s office was on that block. When the switchboard operator was off on Sunday, Hedi was the switchboard operator.  Elaine attended reform Jewish Sunday school in Kew Gardens. Then she would take the subway to the Trylon Theater, get a nickel for the Trylon Soda and Ice Cream (Mr. Viukus) She was then dropped off in the movie theatre, regardless of the movie and watched the A&B movie every week. The women’s room had gorgeous lounges. The elders didn’t care if the movie was scary, Elaine stayed in the Lounge.  00:44:23 The Trylon Theater was truly an art deco theatre – but not built by father for the beauty, but because it was the fashion of the time. 00:45:26 Ernst starts building in Astoria in the 20’s and builds in the 30’s. There was a physical migration as Queens was built block by block.  There was no open space left by 1949 in Forest Hills. In 1939, the World’s Fair was near Forest Hills and they build the Trylon Block. This was as far as Forest Hills had gone at the time.  00:47:35 The War ended in 1945. The GIs came home with the GI bill, and gigantic building boom begins in 1946. Building began again on the edge of Queens, and then Nassau, and then Suffolk, which were potato farms. Houses were built one field after the other. Ernst was a partner on some of those jobs. These were relatively small developments. In the 1950’s these houses were Center and Side Entrance colonials, ranch, and split-level houses. The prices ranged from $5K – $30K. They were 100% financed by VHA and FHA, with very little cash down required. Hundreds of these houses were sold every weekend.  There were models and the houses sold before they are built. Trylon is the sales force for most these jobs. 00:49:45  Levittown changed the mold. It was built on an unheard-of scale, with an internal sales force. This changed her father’s business, and he again focuses on re-sales. In 1949, Elaine’s father was rich again and the family moved to Great Neck. 00:50:12 Elaine talked about being her “father’s son”. Ernst was voluble, a story teller, and liked women. Elaine would run his camera, run his movie equipment, was the side kick (1946) from the time she was nine years old until she left home at 16 years old. Ernst owned strip malls and bought Elaine things like ice cream and dolls. She went to all the building jobs on the weekends. 00:51:22 Hedi designed the interior of the model houses. There was a single row of each house that was completed (‘staged’). The rest of the place was a sea of mud. The houses were built, first by a troops of carpenters, electricians, plumbers, moving from house to house. There was very high employment.  One lot was built and sold after another, you could see them progress. 00:52:53 Hedi staged the houses and does the purchasing.  She enjoyed this. This was her business. She saved her father money – he did not need to hire someone.  00:55:07 The Jewish builders were afraid. It was legal for areas to be restricted before the end of WWII (no Blacks, Jews, Irish, Italian, newly immigrated). Forest Hills Gardens was a restricted community, so the Jewish builders were building for themselves. They used only Jewish ancillary support (lawyers, mortgage companies, accountants, connections to bank).  The Christian builders on Long Island were often not selling to Jews. The Jews were not selling to Blacks. 00:56:06 The Jewish builders existed in parallel to the Christian builders. Ernst referred to “Old Man Trump” (must mean there was a young man Trump –Donald).  Elaine never heard about Donald Trump. Her father did not like Old Man Trump. 00:56:40 The family lived in rental property in Jamaica Estates in 1939. They rent from the Fred Trump Corporation. (Elaine mentions that research is needed related to what was actually restricted.)  00:57:00 Forest Hills Gardens and Cord-Meyer buildings were restricted. They were filled with people who as a child, you believe hate you. 00:58:27 in 1949, the family moves to Great Neck. They move from a small apartment to a mansion. Parts of Great Neck had formerly been restricted against Jews. Jews broke the restriction in 1949 and Great Neck becomes a majority Jewish Town. Previously, this was a community of movie stars, a Christian community of the rich.  00:59:26 Elaine was a beatnik; her father finds this terrifying. She is a tom boy. She has girl’s clothes for school, and tries to fit in, but is a total failure at this! She has been her father’s son and this is not working out. She is placed in remedial classes in great Neck because Queen’s schools of the 1949’s are not adequate.  01:00:30 When Elaine attended PS 157, this was a brand-new school. There was no library yet, and she and some of the kids in the class spent the year preparing the library, they did not go to class.  She was learning disabled. 01:01:19 Great Neck was a very good school system. The children were very educated, she was failing until she caught up. But she did graduate and moved to honor’s classes. 01:01:42 She graduated without a distinguished record. Her sister did much better, but her father did not support her sister. Elaine was more supported as education was not that important to her father. Her parents didn’t attend open school night and no one diagnosed that she is struggling. 01:02:41 Elaine attended Brandeis University. It was a relatively new university at the time. She thinks she was accepted because the University knew her father was rich and hoped he would donate money. TAKE A BREAK AT THIS POINT STOP AND START THE RECORDING -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------  01:04:04 Trylon Reality was located on the Trylon Block between 66th and 99th on Queens Boulevard In 1949, the family moved to Great Neck. Ernst was a syndicator at that point. He received a percentage of the real estate profits. 01:05:00 In 1954, Ernst sold his part of Trylon in Forest Hills.  Trylon Great Neck opened with a new set of partners. Her father was also a partner. He did not consider leaving any of the real estate company to Elaine because she is a girl. 01:05:53 In 1956, Elaine gets married. She goes to college at 16 and gets married at 18.  She is now living her life separate from her parents. They know they could not stop her. She ends the formal authority of her parents at this point.  01:07:25 Ernst now works for himself though he owns a portion of Trylon Great Neck.  he builds a mote – Midway Motor Hotel in Queens, and is on the Board of Directors of Margaret Tietz Nursing Home, located on the border of Queens. He is very involved in the nursing home, due to his commitment to the German Jewish remnant -- his less fortunate pals, his age-mates.  01:09:06 Ernst is a syndicator of small parcels left in Queens and Nassau County, including small apartment buildings and strip malls. He also works in NJ and PA. None of these are giant developments.  01:09:57 Between 1949 and 1954, Ernst guesses wrong, and puts his entire fortune in jeopardy. He leverages everything (very Trump like- bets the farm and is wrong). But somehow, he pulls it off, redeems his properties and gets rich again.  01:11:05 In 1954, Elaine’s parents begin to travel around the world for three months every year on a cruise ship. This is perfect for their marriage. Her mother retreats and her father is the shuffle board champion.  01:13:02 Ernst said Elaine could be three things: a nurse, a secretary, or a teacher. She was too disorganized to be a nurse and failed at short-hand school. Being a teacher was the only possibility, but there was no teacher training at Brandeis. Turns out she loves teaching.  01:13:49 Elaine was married at 18, has two children and a husband in medical school ten years later. She realized she could not support herself which she would need to do if she got divorced (was thinking about it). She goes to night school at Boston Teacher’s College and receives her teaching degree. She is very thrilled to be there, likes learning theory, and is a gifted teacher.   01:14:54 Elaine is also an artist and she majors in art history in college. She was an ardent art history student as a child.  Her intellectual aunts give her art books as gifts.  01:16:16 At age 14, Elaine went to the Museum of Modern Art, by subway, by herself.  She had been traveling on the subway by herself since she was seven years old. She was terrified to go to MOMA.  Her mother had sent her to an art class in Forest Hills, then sent her to MOMA for art classes by herself.  She completes art work there, but at the same time her mother’s sister dies and the art work is never picked up.  It is burned.  01:17:50 In 1968, Elaine lives in Boston, with two children. Her oldest becomes brain damaged by an illness and she needs to get out of the house. In 1969, the Boston Mayor (Kevin White) has mobile units placed throughout the City to keep it from rioting as it had the previous summer. She volunteers, exposing herself to the upper-class, Christian Brahmin world for the first time. She becomes the head of curriculum of the crafts mobile.  01:19:59 In 1970, the city of Boston provides the defunct Institute of Contemporary Art to open again and she is named director of education. She comes into contact with Andrew Hyde II, the new Director and a totally different world - a very well-connected Boston world. She feels like a voyeur, but they are very intrigued with Elaine because she has street savvy. They know the politics and have the money.  01:22:08 So she becomes a museum person by accident. She was doing community building. Her boss, Drew Hydem becomes head of the visitor center at Boston Children’s Museum. He stays for six months and then leaves. Elaine is in their social world and is appointed head of the public facility of the Boston Children’s Museum. It is a serendipitous, unplanned life. 01:23:48 As famous as she becomes, Elaine sees herself as a substitute for action. The museum world can listen to her and that is good enough for them, they don’t have to do anything.  People come to hear her radical message, with no plans to implement it.   01:24:08 Her radical message is that museums should be truly available to real people, all the time. Museums belong to the people. What does it mean to be a free, public space, for people to do their own work?  01:25:13 Elaine’s success is beyond her own expectations. She believes she is successful because she goes to work every day and does her work.  She is fascinated by ‘following the money’. She was her father’s son and she thinks like a boy (running meetings, spread sheets, business of business). She could go into every business meeting, and run it like a boy. She went into the construction business, a man’s field, and was the only woman. She would be tested in boy-like ways.  01:26:53 In the museum world, Elaine started as a deputy director to run the institutions, and then ran those under construction, specifically to build the infrastructure. She did this at such museums as the National Museum of the American Indian and the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum. She then became a consultant and works for herself. She has her own real estate business.  01:28:10 The notion that you should own your home, be an entrepreneur, and make your own money comes from Ernst. 01:28:25 Elaine very rarely comes back to Queens. But in the 1990’s, she came back to Nassau County to help Tom Suazzi deal with public space issues, specifically the public theft of Museum collections. She was hired as a consultant in the legal department.  01:29:26 She comes back every year to see the U.S. Open in Queens. She flies into LaGuardia and it feels like home. It feels surprisingly the same, because Queens had already been completely built when she left. The only changes now are when buildings are torn down and re-built.  01:31:37 We then asked Elaine if there was anything she would like to add: Ron Cahn (Elaine’s cousin) added some comments about his father, who was also in real estate, and had a different career path. His father was not a risk taker. He said Forest Hills was a nice place in which to grow up.  His father did build houses, but did not have an extensive building career. We discussed interviewing Ron and his family in the future.  01:33:12 Elaine discussed how the German Jewish connection is very important to understand. The Germans carried with them the German-Jewish sense of etiquette and behavior. They were very closely tied together. When they were older and started losing people, they grew even tighter.  The Polish Jews in Forest Hills were not part of Elaine’s life.   01:34:15 Elaine’s family was a German-language family, speaking ‘Germlish’.  Her grandparents don’t speak any English, they spoke German at home. Her sister spoke fluent German. Elaine was not permitted to speak German in public, nor did her parents. They assumed people didn’t know their accent was German.  When her parents spoke German to her, she had to speak English back. Her mother thought it was very dangerous to speak German on the street. When her first husband was introduced to the family, he could not understand what they were saying. This was the first time Elaine realized her family was speaking a mix of English and German. She had heard that as a single language.   01:36:39 Elaine finds it very interesting to see young Jews speaking German. (Her daughter’s children speak German. (Her daughter is Eve Gurian Wachhaus.)  01:36:56 Elaine attended different synagogues in Forest Hills as a child. She gave herself a bat-mitzvah for her 40th birthday present. Her father did not want to attend but came through coaxing. Her father came to the opening of the Boston Children’s Museum. He was very impressed and asked what Elaine had to do with this? She lost it and shouted, ‘it is mine’. He still could not conceive what a girl child of his would be allowed to do and what she would be able to do.  01:39:20 Her father was mystified that she was a success in business. He was not opposed, it was just inconceivable to him.  01:39:41 Ron adds a few things about Elaine’s father:  He gave Ron a loan to go to college which was very kind. Ron repaid the loan and no interest was charged. Ernst was a role model in terms of his real estate and was very generous. He was the leader in terms of his commitment and success to real estate. 01:41:05 Elaine’s father was very generous to the family. He knew he had the most money and loaned his money.  But it had to be repaid.  He wanted people to succeed and made money available to everybody. He was the bank, but there were rules.  01:42:32 Elaine said that she operated from a political framework from the very beginning.  Her father expected that if there was a new invention, the family would try it. He was a political being himself and expected Elaine to be ready at every dinner with an opinion of the political situation of the day. Her sister and mother were not included in these dinner discussions.  Elaine had to listen to the news. Her father listened to the news and read the New York Times. Franklin Delano Roosevelt was her father’s big hero.  When Elaine pointed out that there are obligations, (teen age idealist), his response was that when you grow up you will see the reality of the world. Elaine left home in 1954 and went to Brandeis, the most radical left-wing college at the time. At age 14, Ernst sent her to a left-wing summer camp (Bucks Rock Work Camp). When he realized that, he was sorry he had sent her. Elaine was a street organizer by 1970. Her trajectory comes from the Holocaust. Ernst said her idealized version could not be actualized. But she remains a political figure on the left wing of the museum world. She teaches that all decisions are political. She did not grow out of it. She entered the museum world as a street person, people knew that when they hired her.  The museum world wants to hear what she says, but not do it.   01:48:15 End of interview. 1:25 PM August 11, 2017.             