Martha: My name is Martha Heredia, I work here in Grand Avenue Laundromat.   Elvis: My name if Elvis Raymundo.  IÕm passing by where my aunt works on my way to play football.   Martha: I came to the US in 1990.  I worked for 15 years in a clothing factory.  Six years in Manhattan and nine in QueensboroÕ Plaza.  The owners of the factories were Korean but they spoke Spanish perfectly.  For that reason I never learned English.  They were good.  With one of them I was working more than nine years. But that one he got tired of living here and went to his country.  He sold the factory to another person.   The other owner, well, I didnÕt like much the work that they did.  So I decided to change profession.    I had a daughter, took some vacation time and then got work in a Laundromat.  There they taught me for ten months.  I didnÕt like it either.  The managers, I didnÕt like how they were.  It was good work and everything, because it was big.  I decided to ask for work here because I live here, on 35th Street.  I had always come here to wash my clothes since I lived her, for 18 years.  But till then it had never struck me to ask for work here.  Now I live five minutes from work.  I work five days Ð in the afternoons on the weekdays and in the mornings on Saturday and Sunday.  I like the customers who come, they are very friendly.  We chat with people.  You donÕt get bored.  We have quite a lot of work but I like it.   I only have one sister and distant family in Mexico still.  We are six brothers and sisters, and five of us live here.  And my parents are here.  In the 21 years since I came I have only been back to Mexico two times.  All my family is here.  We go on vacation near here.  When I came, I lived three years in Manhattan, I got married and came to live here in Astoria.  There werenÕt so many businesses then.  I lived on Crescent but in a very small apartment.  I got this one and loved it Ð IÕve been there 18 years.    The cafŽs and everything, itÕs not much time that theyÕve been open.  ItÕs nice because in the summer itÕs full of people.  In the nighttime here you donÕt need to worry about anything.  We close at midnight and there are things open, people and everything.  When my daughter was born we would go out walking in the evenings Ð because in the mornings we would sleep late so she would stay awake very late.  Elvis: I live on 36th Street.  ItÕs quiet, there arenÕt really problems.  Only sometimes when people who arenÕt from around here come through.  I have two more years to go in school.  And then to college.  IÕm 15.  I want to study culinary arts.  To be a chef.  Ideally Mexican and Italian food.  I donÕt really want to set up my own restaurant Ð thatÕs hard to manage.   Martha: Everyone round here knows my daughter.  We know the business owners, the workers.  Most of the young people around here come to study or whatever and then they go, but still, a lot of the people here I have known for years.  