My name is Carlos Manuel Hiraldo and we are in Astoria, 30th Drive, our apartment. IÕm a college Professor at La Guardia Community College which is a part of CUNY.    I teach English literature which for all practical purposes means composition, freshman composition.  I also teach the novel sometimes, a course called writing through literature.  I sometimes teach a poetry course.   My students are of all ages and they are from all over the world.  La Guardia calls itself the worldÕs community college.  Slogans are slogans but itÕs true to some extent. The most satisfying aspect is seeing the improvements, seeing students becoming better as writers, and becoming interested, wanting to take a literature course or course in a particular kind of writing.  The most challenging part is the students who donÕt make the breakthroughs!  Those whose writing doesnÕt get betterÉand the students who take an elective literature course but are not really interested in it.  ItÕs difficult because you donÕt want to ignore the students who arenÕt making significant progress, but you also donÕt want to just focus on them because that brings down the class as well.  So itÕs a hard balancing act. ItÕs hard to admit as an educator in this country that not every student is going to learn and not every student is going to pass, because the rhetoric is that everybody can learn and do well.  Obviously thatÕs just not true.   I was born in upper Manhattan, in Washington heights, in Columbia Presbyterian Medical Center in the maternity ward called Sloan Hospital for Women.  The first four years when my parents were together we lived on a very quiet block on 171st street.  I remember green trees.  For some reason I donÕt remember winters during the first few years of my life.  I remember running with my sister because the hospital was nearby and it had ramps outside.  We would run up the ramps and call it Òel peligroÓ, frightened that the security guards would shoot us if we ran up the ramp outside.  We had very vivid imaginations. I guess my mom said at some point Òno corre por all’ porque es un peligroÓ and so we started calling it Òel peligro.Ó  My mother worked in a factory all her life- AlexandraÕs doll company.  It was a luxury doll company where the doll probably cost more than she made in one day.  That was on 135th Street.  My father was a cab driver.  He picked me up from school at 3pm every day for lunch.  That was weird because it meant I ate lunch late around 3 then I would eat dinner at 6 or 7.  Sometimes I would also eat lunch in school because I couldnÕt wait.  I was always praised at high school for being a good writer.  I remember when I went back to teach at my high school for one year, my history teacher told me that he still had some of my essays.  At first I wanted to be a journalist, to do a communications major.  Then I realized you had to be too diplomatic.  I realized I just didnÕt have the personality to be a communications major.  Now I think I could do it but at the time I couldnÕt.  I was also shy, very inward.  And you have to make connections as a journalist.  My English professor told me to be an English professor because it still involves writing.   Usually my writing is about identity.  Whether race, class etc.  What is your identity first and foremost, how you deal with it, and how do you let it be a positive rather than a negative.  Often identity can be negative.  And if people believe the wrong things about what theyÕre supposed to be, thatÕs negative.  So if people believe that being Latino or being black is being uneducated, then thatÕs an identity thatÕs harming you.  So itÕs teaching people to be flexible about their identity.   The poems I write are confessional but I try to make them objective, or at least relatable.  Too much poetry can be people just regurgitating their lives and putting in verse a kind of diary.   Those are my worst poems, the ones that make me shiver.  I donÕt have a method.  They just come to be from my life, from feeling something strongly, you know.   Last year I wrote about travelling a lot.  75% of travelling I donÕt like.  ThereÕs a 25% jewel in it thatÕs great but I donÕt like the actual process of travelling and I donÕt like most of the way I feel before and afterwards Ð the stress of preparing and then trying to come back to some kind of normality.    Our families are spread outside of NYC.  My wifeÕs English, so we have relatives in England, Miami/San Francisco / Dominican Republic.   There are probably more people living here who werenÕt born here than were born here.  I think that immigrants from abroad invest more in the city than internal immigrants from other parts of the country.  Immigrants from abroad whether they are Latinos, Asians, Latin Americans etc. they come here and set up a life here.  Internal immigrants whether they come from the Midwest or wherever, they often see the city more with utilitarian purposes.  Immigrants from abroad and native new Yorkers have a thing in common Ð they see it as home.  I think immigrants internally see it in utilitarian terms.  Like ÒI want to be an actor so I come to New York to be an actorÓ, or ÒI want to be in finance so I come to New York to be in financeÓ.  And they often have an exit strategy.  IÕm not saying that immigrants from abroad or people born here wonÕt leave Ð they might Ð but while they are here they already have an exit strategy, itÕs a stepping stone.   The attachment is dispassionate when you were born here.  Internal immigrants have to go everywhere and see everywhere while they are here, see all the new places and the hip places because they know that they will be here only a certain amount of time.  Native New Yorkers donÕt get so frenzied about it.   I moved to Astoria in November 2009.  My wife and I were expecting a child.  She was looking for places in Brooklyn that have certain characteristics Ð enough space and also an ambience, so you can do things in the neighborhood.  I was living in Sunnyside at the time which is close to my work.  So I thought of Astoria Ð prices are reasonable and thereÕs a lot to do in the neighborhood.   Washington Heights there wasnÕt that much to do around the area.  Unless you were dealing drugs, or, you were very Dominican Ð born in the DR or your parents were.  In the 70s, 80,s., 90s, even today.  Even though its gentrified now there are still very few options in Washington Heights itself unless youÕre a Dominican immigrant or a criminal (not the same thing even though some people might like to think that!).  There is Cougans where a lot of whites hang out and sort of American-born Dominicans or those who have been here a long time.  Sunnyside was somewhere between Washington Heights and Astoria in that respect.  It did have some bars to go to but again they have much more of a neighborhood feel. If you have not grown up in the neighborhood even if you were born in New York, you donÕt necessarily feel comfortable in those places.  I think there are more places in Astoria that are more inviting to all kinds.  You see people who you think have probably grown up in the neighborhood and then you see people who have just been here a few years like us.   Some neighborhoods are the other extreme.  Like in Brooklyn they feel all new.  TheyÕve changed so radically that while you have a small sense of what used to be itÕs hardly there.  Whereas Astoria is still in flux.  The landscape is in flux and that kind of saddens me.  The architecture is not pretty.  I think itÕs never been pretty this mix of weird houses that look different and then bigger buildings.  Now you get more for sale signs on the small houses and thatÕs sad, you donÕt know whatÕs going to happen.  If possible IÕd like to see that mix of old and new in the people but the old in the buildings!  I donÕt think the whole city should look like Manhattan.   ThereÕs a great bakery where they make the best chocolate croissants IÕve ever, ever tasted Ð FrankÕs Bakery on 30th Ave.  I like Athens cafŽ and a couple of the restaurants.  It would be good if there were more small bodegas, small grocery stores.  You have supermarkets, and you have magazine stores, but few stores that sell food in case you forget something you can quickly go in.   Growing up in the 70s and 80s in New York City I had a tough time growing up. I donÕt think you can always say that New York is a great environment to raise a kid unless youÕre super rich. The schools is one thing, and just the environment.  Even the best neighborhoods like this one have elements you donÕt want associated with your kid.  My kid is very young now so AstoriaÕs fine but I donÕt know if it always will be.  