Elliot Hirshon grew up in North Merrick in [Nassau County] and moved to [Forest Hills] in 1977. He married Irene Jedrlinic in 1983. He remains a resident of the area, living in the house that he and his wife bought and renovated in 1986. In this interview he describes his life in the Colorado Apartment Building and his role in opposing the owners’ move to convert the rentals to coops. He describes the businesses, restaurants, and recreation facilities of the neighborhood and how they have changed, or in some cases, remained the same. He reflects on his exciting visit to the 1964-1965 New York World’s Fairs in [Flushing Meadows-Corona Park] when he was a teenager, traveling to Queens from Long Island. The interview touches on his family’s connection to Manhattan and the experience of living with elements of both an urban and a suburban lifestyle. Most important to Mr. Hirshon is his description of his marriage and family and his pride in having raised his son in a home filled with love, by two parents who fit each other like pieces of a jigsaw puzzle.  Intro  00:40 Mr. Hirshon explains that his son, Nicholas, introduced him to the Queens Memory Project. After his wife’s death, Mr. Hirshon and his son found items in the house that reflected Queens’ history and this prompted Nicholas to contact the Memory Project.    1:56.73 Describes watching a TV show that broadcast wrestling from the [Sunnyside Garden Arena] in Queens. He was a child living in Long Island at the time and he recalls this as a special time shared with his father, when he was able to stay up later than usual, he recalls memorable wrestlers Haystacks Calhoun, and Masked Marvel. (Interviewer note: Mr. Hirshon struggles in the interview to name a wrestler whose name he says is similar to “Ricky Martin.” Following the interview, he remembered the wrestler was named Ricki Starr.)  6:33 Begins to describe his move to Queens as a young adult after completing college. He had been commuting to work in Rego Park, Queens, and school in Manhattan from his home in North Merrick, Long Island, and found the commute too long and difficult.  7:18 Describes the routes of the E and F trains at the time and the commute.  7:48 Worked at the Social Security Administration office in [Rego Park], where he met his wife who was a lifelong Queens resident.    8:34 Began exploring the neighborhoods of Queens and found Forest Hills to appear to be a “nice,” “middle-class” community. Moved to [Forest Hills] in 1977.  9:09  Moved to [67-12 Yellowstone Boulevard] in Forest Hills. Describes the housing stock of apartment buildings built around WWII.  9:30* Describes the Colorado Apartment Building where he lived, near the 67th Avenue subway stop.  10:05* Discusses the subway lines and the fact that the routes have changed.  Explains that the route lines used to have double letters, e.g., NN, RR, GG.  10:30 Neighborhood composition: Many tenants were in their 50s to 60s and retired. Mr. Hirshon thinks they may have lived there for most of their adult lives. Residents took car service or buses to travel locally and subway to Manhattan.  11:19 Mr. Hirshon had a studio apartment when he got married. He and his wife moved to a larger apartment in the same building.  11:27* Mr. Hirshon proudly describes his wife’s ability to negotiate with the landlord for a larger apartment and a parking space.  12:18 Describes moving into their larger apartment which had been occupied by the prior tenant for many years, the floor was “black” from dirt and there was an infestation of roaches.  The landlord needed to do some cleaning prior to their moving in.    13:06 Within a year or two of their moving to the larger apartment they learned that the owners were planning to have the building “go co-op.”    13:16 “Almost nobody” who was renting there wanted to buy an apartment because the building was not well maintained; he describes the conditions and the fact that the tenants often called the city to complain. This was approximately 1984. Began working with the tenants association, which was led by a nice but disorganized elderly woman.  The building was seven stories high with approximately twenty apartments on each floor. Younger people in the building started working together to oppose the proposed conversion plan.  16:32* The tenants group banded together to hire an attorney and an engineer, there was a divide between the older and newer tenants, and the newer and younger tenants hired an attorney.  17:57* The landlord may have recruited the leader of the older tenants group “to be a spy.” “And we were warned to be careful.” As soon as this group saw a weakness in our attorney their group walked out. The younger group started interviewing new attorneys and engineers and compiled information about the building deficiencies.    19:31 The tenant group was able to delay the plans for the coop conversion but was not able to prevent it. The landlord never negotiated with the tenants beyond the minimum that the “attorney general forced them to do.” The only options were to remain as a renter (and forgo any upgrades to the apartment), or leave, if you were unwilling to purchase a coop.  Renters were able to terminate their lease without penalty but were not offered incentives to move.  21:45* The landlord may have been related to the LeFraks and may have had some connection to the Trump family.  22:10 The Hirshons purchased and moved to a house in Forest Hills. “Way on the other side of Queens Boulevard,” bordering Forest Park. He continues his discussion of the old neighborhood near the Colorado Apartments.  22:40* The former movie theater (Trylon Theater on Queens Boulevard) which is now a Ukrainian Jewish theatre, the (Midway Theater on Queens Boulevard) now has nine screens and formerly had five, another theater is now a Duane Reade. Two theatres on Austin street have been converted – one to a children’s clinic (formerly Brandon Cinemas) and the other is now, possibly, a NY Sports Club.  The neighborhood originally had a predominantly Eastern European Jewish population. There were numerous Jewish delis on Queens Boulevard and Continental Avenue; none exist now in Forest Hills.  The rental building always had a transient population that changed over time to “Oriental” groups, Indian groups, Russians. The new Russians are different from the older group. Both are Jewish but the earlier group was more likely from Poland and Austria and the newer Russians are more Eastern/Asian/Ukrainian. This led to a change in the types of food and services available in the area; Supermarkets changed, Dunkin Donuts was a “coffee shop”, fast-food restaurants took over, [Hollywood Lanes] bowling alley closed, Some fruit markets are the same, but still have “candy stores” that sell newspapers and candy like the old days.  27:15 Mr. Hirshon explains that he doesn’t miss much of the old neighborhood but highlights a few shops and restaurants he remembers.  27:33* [Sandy’s Surf] was a very good Jewish deli, [Mayhew’s] on Continental Avenue was also good, but is now gone, [UJ’s] on Continental Avenue had garage doors on the front, all these were replaced by chain restaurants.  There was also the [Empire Store] on Austin Street - 2 stories.  He goes onto mention a family-owned kitchenware store called the [Happy Cooker]. The [Irish Cottage Pub] is one of the few that remains from the old days.  Woolworth’s is now Boston Market.  31:04* Went to a Mexican restaurant where Tito Puente played. That and other restaurants have changed ownership.  31:29* The local Italian restaurant, Buonavia and La Stella (sp?) were owned by Lidia of the famous restaurant family. (Interviewer note: This refers to Lidia Bastianich. The second restaurant was named Villa Seconda.)  32:30* Mr. Hirshon shares another anecdote about the co-op conversion at the Colorado Apartments.  Mr. Hirshon and his wife began seeing people come to the building to explore the option of buying an apartment. The official co-op offering had not yet been made public. The building had a widespread roach infestation. Mr. Hirshon killed a large specimen and glued it to the wall adjacent to the door way of the sales office. It remained there for several weeks.  34:56 He reflects on the apartment and explains that fixing up their rundown apartment provided the skills and experience they needed when the purchased a “fixer-upper.”  Their new home was a 2 story with an attic. They added an attic floor, outdoor lighting, removed old wallpaper. They hired people to redo the floors and he and his wife handled painting and wallpaper. They renovated the kitchen with paint and new appliances. Over time they hired contractors for larger renovations they could not afford initially.  36:55 The neighborhood composition: A small block, dead end, bounded by Metropolitan Avenue and Forest Park. Many neighbors were much older. The Hirshons were in their 30s. Next door was a couple in their 60s who lived in the house since it was built in the 1930s. The other next door neighbors were a young couple with young twin children. Other residents of the block included other older couples whose children were grown and a few young couples. Few stores.  38:26* An ice cream shop from the 1920s remains there. It is adjacent to the Cinemark movie theater. It is called Eddie’s Sweet Shop. They have homemade ice cream and whipped cream. The old “Our Gang” comedies were filmed there and currently the TV show Blue Bloods sometimes films there.  40:31 Business on Metropolitan Avenue at that time – mainly “back office” – not retail for the public; Lawyers, insurance agents, etc., very few restaurants. There was a drug store and two card shops – “Dolly” and “Fantasia”. Later others moved in - Pet stores, vet, hobby shop, wine shop. Not much to look at when walking with the baby stroller. Forest Park near them led to the bridle path - not suitable for pedestrian strolling. The small playground was poorly maintained - soiled by dogs, equipment in poor repair. Neighborhood was and still feels safe, quiet suburban feel. Parking remains at a premium if you are not using the driveway. The homes are built with the driveway away from the doorway to the house.  44:53 Mr. Hirshon describes his trip to the 1964-1965 New York World’s Fairs in what is now Flushing Meadows Park. He was in his early teens (age 11 or 12) and living in North Merrick, Long Island. His father was not interested in attending this fair as he thought nothing could beat the 1939 World’s Fair. Elliot and his friends decided to visit, using the LIRR, to the Flushing line. He thinks the trip might have been subsidized by the Merrick News. (Interviewer’s note: The Merrick News was a newspaper that Mr. Hirshon and his brother Arnold started out of their home at 2006 Brian Drive with other children from the neighborhood.) They visited two or three times with “brownie cameras.” He remembers the GM exhibit - Futurama, Hall of the Presidents. It’s a Small World (sponsored by Coke or Pepsi). Ford exhibit – life through the ages with home/family tableaus. The current Hall of Science was an exhibit sponsored by another nation, possibly Jordan. Belgian waffles – thick waffle with ice cream, whipped cream and strawberries.  The foreign pavilions… “we were fascinated by meeting foreign people.”    48:25 Explored his connection to Manhattan. When very young, he would visit his mother’s parents in Manhattan. He remembers hearing the “toots of the ferry boats” from their apartment.  50:20 He and his brother would set up a table in front of the house to sell lemonade, toys, books, and coins. They wanted to save their money to buy tickets to see The Music Man on Broadway. They were inspired to do this after hearing the song “76 Trombones.” The family bought four tickets and went to a Wednesday matinee to see his first Broadway show. Robert Preston was performing. His father loved it - the musical techniques and performances, his father was a Juilliard-trained musician. After they had dinner at Tad’s Steak House. “That was our adventure.” First adventure in Manhattan. Also remembers seeing a TV show when they received free tickets, and attended a game show with host Jack Nars, called Dotto. His mother was invited to return as a guest but the quiz show scandals broke the following week and the show went off the air.  54:55* Explains that his father would not go into Manhattan if he didn’t have to (awkward). Often said that “the Indians got the better deal…” when they sold the island for $24. His mother was not adventurous and preferred staying home. His father hated going to “the city.”    56:21 Explored role of religion in his upbringing - he explains it was not important but that they “had to be bar mitzvahed.” While living in North Merrick, they attended a conservative temple that required a long walk to attend. The family did not attend Saturday services because his father’s business was open on Saturdays. He discusses attending Hebrew school and later studying the Bible in college. He did not have any connection to connection to religion in later life, his wife was Catholic and so is their son.  1:01:00 Starting to close the interview. Asked why he has chosen to remain in Queens, what makes it a place where he has chosen to live - Convenient to roads and highways to L.I., and convenient to public transportation to Manhattan for work. It is in between suburban life and very urban life in Manhattan (*1:02). At night there are fewer crowds than Manhattan but more lively than Nassau or Suffolk counties. He prefers local hardware store to Home Depot. He and his wife liked access to Manhattan – museums, Broadway shows. Never afraid to ride the subway; raised their son that way. Liked to explore other cities and countries during vacations, and liked exploring other people and foods.  1:04:00 In closing Mr. Hirshon reflects that what is most important to him is his marriage and family. He describes his wife and their marriage as “very, very special.” They fit together like a jigsaw puzzle and his son added a piece to the puzzle. He shares a story that illustrates for him his wife’s spirit and the melding of all of their interests into a special family. “There was love in that house…”  