Pedro Holguin is Colombian by birth. He has resided in the United States since 1985, and is a longtime QueensÕs resident. Pedro speaks of his values, his life in solitude and of his sexual orientation. He discusses the reasons that induced him to immigrate and of the labor it took to assimilate into the United States.    00:00:25  Pedro Holguin experienced problems securing employment in his native Colombia. This hardship continued until a relative offered Pedro assistance to come to the United States. The only catch was that Pedro had to travel across the Mexican / United States Border.  He accepted the money because he wanted to meet with friends and relatives that were living in the United State. The relative that offered him assistance had connections in the city of Tijuana. He accomplished the border crossing with a mother and her two children. The mother and her children had been fleeing the violence in Colombia. The woman had received multiple death threats and decided that she would be better off in the United States. Pedro and his group crossed the Mexican / United States border with assistance from a ÒcoyoteÓ. He recalls his trek without hardship. One issue that the mother faced was being separated from her children. She later rendezvoused with her children in San Diego, California. Pedro separated from the mother and her children when they all arrived in New York City.    00:03:15  When Pedro arrived in the United States border his life as an illegal immigrant began to trouble his relatives here. First off, his relatives did not know anything about Pedro arrival and later found out that he did not request a visa from the American Consulate in Colombia. Once in New York City, his family told him that the police would arrest him. Pedro communicated with his relativeÕs friends who advised him that he had to kept quiet so that nothing would happens to him. Pedro obtained shelter and food, but needed to work. His friends advised him to go to New Jersey where supposedly one would find work, but he found that this was not the case. He later moved back to Brooklyn and finally found employment  Pedro searched for work using the newspaper and found a job in Queens, but found the long commute a struggle. He moved to live with friends in Queens and began living a semi-iterant lifestyle.   00:06:16  In Colombia, Pedro lived with his family consisting of his mother and brothers. Pedro was not economically sufficient because he had no career. Like many of his friends, Pedro moved to the United States in search of new horizons. He worked very hard, and had many ups and downs during his first job where he sewed clothes. He learned that friends in the United States that lied about their professional accreditation. Some of these people were able to secure well-paying jobs with important titles. Pedro could not find it in himself to lie.    00:08:26  Pedro learned a great deal about the different peoples and the diverse cultures that live together in the United States. He encountered stereotypes that portrayed Colombians as drug traffickers. In his second job, he met to a Dominican woman that assisted him in finding a high paying job at another company. Pedro took the job not know that he was actually working to replace a worker who had temporarily left. His boss asked him to stay and this caused him to make enemies at his workplace. Pedro became involved in his local union. They later aided him in finding work in Brooklyn.   00:11:17  By 1990 Pedro had lived in the United States for five years. He then began to complete his application for permanent residency. He comments that his residency application was processed faster. He comments that his mother who was vetted for his sister experienced difficulty with her application.   00:12:03  PedroÕs employer went broke and he lost his job. But the company union assisted him in finding another job in Brooklyn.    00:12:36  Pedro discusses how he felt distant from his family in the United States. He felt uncomfortable because some of them only spoke English and Pedro wanted to communicate in Spanish. Pedro began to make friends in other parts of Queens including blind photographer Sonia Soberats. They eventually lived together for a short while. In 1995 Pedro eventually obtained his own apartment on account that his mother was coming to visit him soon. The apartment was very expensive and Pedro had to take in housemates to pay his rent. PedroÕs mother and sister joined Pedro in New York City. His mother who came with the intention of staying in the United States could not get accustomed to the American way of life. She missed her children in Colombia and eventually moved back.   00.15:50  Pedro encountered many cultural obstacles when he first moved to the United States. One thing that stuck Pedro was the concept of instant and microwaveable food. In Colombia, Pedro was used to fresh meals made with fresh food. Clearly, he had reached a new level of understanding about his himself through his new situation as an immigrant.    00: 17:44  In 1999 Pedro was diagnosed with chronic tendonitis. He was scared because he lost the sensitivity and the strength in fingers which he used to design, cut, and tailor cloth. Pedro was forced to leave his job which he took very hard. He did continue to work.    00:19:06  After Pedro lost his job he began to volunteer at a non-profit that defended the rights of HIV positive people. A year later, he was offered a paid position with the organization. In 2001 Pedro decided to undergo surgery to relieve the tendonitis on both his hands. The surgery was successful but his hands were not 100% back to normal. In the meantime, PedroÕs company union continued to give him workerÕs compensation.  Pedro thought about returning to Colombia but he did not want to be a coward and decided to remain here. He enjoyed working at the non-profit. Pedro later faced a major catastrophe when he became infected with tuberculosis and he received a cancer diagnosis. Pedro also lost his apartment due to the lack of advice from his social worker. His mother also decided to return to Colombia and Pedro found friends who gave him room and board. In 2008, a relative recommended that he move to Florida for the climate. Pedro shortly visited Florida but did not find it to his liking. He did not have a car and he did not like the humidity. Pedro departed Florida to Colombia for a while. He then went back to New York City.  00:26:00  When Pedro returned to New York, he began to better understand the plight that different immigrants face in this country. [In fact Pedro always uses the word "emigrant"] Pedro claims that the United States is a country of immigrants and that the President [Trump] must know the laws if he wanted to avoid making mistakes that go against the peopleÕs interest. Pedro believes that recent immigrant should not have less or fewer rights because of their new status. Pedro believes that Latinos are rejected in the United States despite their numbers as the largest minority population in this country. He said that it is time to have a Latino President. Everybody here has the chance and opportunity.   00:30:36   New York and California offers courses to prepare and inform leaders and regular citizens about the rights of the HIV positive. Pedro could not find employment in a similar organization when he was in Florida. This was because the Cuban population in Florida had a monopoly on such jobs. Pedro talks about how the Cuban population fiercely guarded these healthcare jobs and distributed these jobs among their own communities. Pedro states that in Florida the different Latino populations work together to tackle problems in their home countries. Pedro recalls having the opportunity to create a new non-profit organization in Florida that would support the local HIV positive population. His efforts were stonewalled by the sizable Cuban majority in Florida. Pedro claims that there is a hierarchy of immigrants from Spanish speaking countries. He claims that were is visible discrimination that comes from the upper echelons. Pedro goes onto state that immigrants can obtain powerful jobs with important titles, but in the Òwe are all immigrants [remember that Pedro always uses the word "emigrants"] and we have to do whatever it takes to surviveÓ. Pedro believes that when people arrive to come to the United States they must learn the language and study.    00:36:05  When Pedro first arrived knew nothing regarding cooking and he had to learn to cook from scratch. He found it was a challenge but he found that he learned to cook by asking other people for assistance. Sometimes he found this father hard because of his shy demeanor. Pedro dealt with his shyness by attending leadership workshops sponsored by the government.  He practices English, but still lacks the ability to be fluent. Pedro recounts the many physical and psychological obstacles he faced when he arrived in the United States. He says that everyone faces obstacles during their lives, regardless of origin.    00:44:50  PedroÕs first community oriented job entailed handing out condoms at the Village.   He had to learn not to let anything affect him, because many times people rejected the free condoms he passed out. Pedro states that human sexuality is not treated as an open subject and that favors the conditions that led to the AIDS epidemic. He continues this by saying that often time religion and religious institutions look to cover this problem. He continues this by citing the discriminations that Latin American immigrants and LGBTQ people face in this country. Pedro defends the plight of LGBTP. He ends this stream of conversation by saying that religious institutions should not meddle in creating national policy that affect the LGBTQ.   00:51:53  Pedro says that his family prays together. They celebrate Thanksgiving together. Pedro continues to give his opinions about religious sects and their influence in the family life. He claims that religious institutions make people confuse veneration with idolatry. He makes special reference to the JehovahÕs Witnesses.   00:56:15  Pedro says AmericaÕs culture encourages Latin American immigrants to be punctual. The Latin people that have had luck here they want to take advantage of the others which just came to this country after them, but not all races make that same:  European, Chinese and Jewish are always helping among themselves... Latinos have to join and help themselves as well. He says that with his own family he has passed many negative things, but now they admire him for being honest and for demanding his rights.   00:59:30  Pedro could have been Sherman of the Union, but many, that were in the peak, were opposed because he was not Italian, while the most was in accordance with him. The first unions emerged in the works known as "workshops of sweat" because they were performed in basements and with low conditions, really inhumane situations. The purpose of the unions was finished with those abuses.him. The first unions emerged in the works known as "workshops of sweat" because they were performed in basements and with low conditions, really inhumane situations. The purpose of the unions was finished with those abuses.  01:02:36  Latin people are very discouraged. Which is up will take advantage from the others that are down. Again Pedro speaks upon the lies about the titles to get work... The people are slaves at work and they do not aspire to study and to advance, and progress. Pedro learned of their own setbacks, by his studies and his health problems. He studied English and computer science, but by being asking the disability lawyer struck him, but he didn't want to do nothing, but something had to be done he said to himself... The family did not help him in this country of the opportunities... Many people do not take advantage of the opportunities that they have here because is accurate to make sacrifices and sleep so little time for studying and working. Latino people come with the ego of being the doctor so-and-so of such, but here they are like any other person, and to the end we are all equal, by that reason is that we love this country... He speaks of the deal between the Latin people and the respect...    01:14:50  Pedro reflects on how ethnic groups come to the power in this country, he puts examples of the Kennedys and of Donald Trump.  He speaks of the Jews.   01:16:48  In this country people "take it" with Latinos for being darkish, Latinos that have indigenous features, but these lands were originally living by indigenous people... Spain sent the worst people to America, but Latinos came out good people. The Spanish took all our wealth. We have been mistreated by the Europeans and we don't know why... Speaking of Koch as Mayor of New York, he has a negative opinion about him. Speaking of education in Latin America and here, as well as of the importance that teaches geography. Speaking of Hillary Clinton and Obama.    01:21:05  Pedro went to see a psychologist for depression that had... Climate changes are here in New York especially extreme cold than he never imagined it could be. That is why he went to Florida. He has to use a cane in winter. All that led him to depression. Unlike others, he looked for alternative psychologists that helped him... His grandmother had taught him to abandon material things, but the Latin people adhere to the material. One has to change because everything in life is ephemeral.   