Ms. Hong moved to the United States with her two daughters in 1991. Ok-youngÕs sister had married an American citizen and settled in the country. Ok-youngÕs in-laws invited her to come to America. Ms. HongÕs husband left for American five years earlier in 1986. He worked bring his wife and children to American. After he came to American, Her husband continued her career in promoting and teaching Korean cultural arts throughout New York. [*Note: Korean cultural arts span various spoken word and performances. These cultural arts often involve wearing traditional Korean clothes (han-bok) and performing with traditional Korean instruments]  00:00:28 Ms. Hong arrived in America on December 31st 1990. She continued her career of working to promote Korean cultural arts in her country. 00:01:00 Young-ok first settled in Forest Hills where she lived for five years. She then moved to a place located at the intersection of Parsons Boulevard and Northern 194th Street where she lived for approximately five years. She then moved to Sunnyside where she lived for three more years. Hong-ok has lived in Queens for about twenty years. 00:02:25 She found Forest Hills quieter than Flushing. She also heard from other Koreans living in Flushing who spoke about Forest Hills. Ms. Hong encountered a large Jewish community in Forest Hills that kept the neighborhood tidy. She also enjoyed Forest HillÕs European-esque qualities. 00:04:35 She and her husband both operated small stores after they settled in New York. Her husband operated a store up in the Bronx when he first moved to the country. Ms. Hong-ok operated a store in Brooklyn. She and her husband were not close with their neighbors because they faced a language barrier and because of their busy schedules. She particularly was drawn to the Forest HillÕs ambience. She found Flushing too dense and chaotic and did not enjoy it. 00:07:45 Ms. HongÕs husband had already lived in the United States for five years by the time she arrived in the United States. He was overjoyed to be reunited with his wife and two daughters. 00:08:36 Because her friends and family live far apart, Young-okÕs entire family could not gather together for the larger Korean holidays including (Chu-seok) and Lunar New Year. Instead during these large holidays Korean Young-ok and her immediate family attended outside Korean cultural art performances. Because of her familyÕs busy schedule she and her family did never went on vacations.  00:10:38 Ms. Hong talks about how difficult she found settling in her country. She then talks about how much harder it must have been for people who came before her. 00:11:15 Ms. HongÕs found her friends and her in-laws already in America. Her husband decided to sell his business and set a date to move to America. Ms. HongÕs younger sister had settled in the United States forty years ago. This relationship allowed Ms. Hong to invite her entire family to live in the United States. Ms. Hong moved to America thinking that she could continue her career teaching traditional Korean art. But she found that this was not the case. 00:13:25 In the 1970Õs Ms. HongÕs younger sister also a teacher of traditional Korean art managed to go on tour and visit New Jersey and Philadelphia. Ms. HongÕs sister was first introduced to her husband while on tour in America. She and her traveling troupe were invited to a house party hosted by later fiancŽe. Her young sisterÕs husband had immigrated to the United States when he was in middle school. 00:16:00 Ms. Hong lived in Sunnyside for ten years. They later moved to Westchester, New York . They managed to live there because Ms. HongÕs husband applied for senior citizen house after turning sixty-two. Ms. Hong wanted to work with her local Korean community association as a platform to advocate for traditional Korean art. She found the Korean community there lacking in spirit and she had a hard time advocating for her programs. She found the Korean community in Westchester not as united as the Korean community she was familiar working with in Flushing. After five years of advocating for traditional Korean programs, Ms. Hong took a break from pursuing more outreach. 00:21:32 Ms. Hong describes Westchester as mixed community comprised of Korean, Japanese, and other immigrants, many of whom are retired and liked to climb the mountains nearby. She found that the elderly Korean community there lacking unity. Two year ago she estimated that there are about 30,000 Korean immigrants and Koreans living in Westchester. 00:23:37 Ms. Hong describes Sunnyside a very heterogeneous neighborhood with many different immigrant communities. Sunnyside was very conveniently located and one could easily travel to Manhattan and Flushing from Sunnyside. She has noted that SunnysideÕs Korean population has moved away and its numbers dwindled. She found herself not interaction with her neighbors in her apartment. 00:27:11 Because most of her family lives in the United States, America feels more like home (country) to her. However she still only rides Korean car services. Her lack of English skills and inability to communicate clearly is a cause for personal fear. 00:28:15 Ms. Hong founds Queens very comfortable because of the sizable Korean population. She feels that one does not that to be a fluent English speaker to reside in Queens. She and her husband mainly interacted with other Koreans in Flushing and were not frustrated by language barriers.  00:31:50 Ms. Hong has observed that Chinese immigrant will spend their extra income in purchasing material goods, while Korean immigrants save it to bequeath to their children. She notes that there are subgroups within the Korean immigrant population. Some include Korean immigrants who first came as college students forty years ago while others settled in American to start small businesses. She notes that many Koreans had sharp business skills. Korean women expanded into nail salons and beauty supply stories. She notes that there used to be a sizable population of Korean wholesalers in Manhattan on 32rd street. Their numbers have since dwindled. 00:35:18 Despite her lack of strong English skills, Ms. Hong managed to operate a small business. However her desire to each and promote Korea traditional art was strong. Because of this drive she closed her business to pursue her passion. At the age of forty Ms. Hong took to a new career in painting nails. It was at that time she managed to meet other Korean traditional artists. They threw many traditional Korean events and continue to do so to this day. 00:39:03 In the past the Korean community in Queens would celebrate Chu-seok (Korean Thanksgiving) by gathering at Shea Stadium. The Korean community would rent the baseball stadium parking lot. But Ms. Hong did not particularly enjoy the ambience. Now Queens College is the host for a smaller Queens based Chu-seok festival. In additional the Korean Daily News (a local newspaper) hosts a larger Chu-seok festival every first week of October in midtown Manhattan. In May, there would be many events showcasing traditional Korean arts including in Brooklyn and even in Long Island. Ms. Hong worked hard to coordinate these events. In the past these events used to be free but now they are being hindered by rising costs and expenses. Sometime during September and December of every year, the Queens Library hosts a large International Festival dedicated to showcasing the different communities that make up Queens. Ms. Hong worked to secure one hour of the festival and have it used to showcase Korean traditional arts. 00:42:45 The Korean Community Service Center is a premier non-profit organization based in New York City that receives federal support. KSCÕs director Kwang-Suk Kim and the young staff members have been role models for the Korean American community. KSC works hard to advocate and provide support for New YorkÕs Korean American community and new Korean immigrants. The KSC works hard to leave property and building for the descendants of future generation of Korean-American and Korean immigrants.  00:45:20 In New York, many different ethnic communities look to promote  their respective traditional cultural events. In order to serve the community one can do more than donate money. One can donate their talents and volunteer hours. However Ms. Hong sees this camaraderie lacking in the Korean American community. She believes that the Korean American community needs to learn solidarity at a younger age. Traditional Korean arts advocates also need to serve their communities.  00:49:00 Ms. Hong observes that those Koreans who have received American style education are much more confident in speaking their minds and have different values from Koreans who have studied in Korea. Ms. Hong observed the free spirit nature of the American born Korean students at a Saturday Korean school. She wondered to herself if the latter generation of Koreans being raised would be too free spirited. 00:54:20 Ms. HongÕs two daughters live in Atlanta, George. They left New York City after living here twenty-six year because they found it too congested and expensive. They moved to Atlanta because the weather is warmer and the cost of living is more affordable. 00:55:53 The transportation to and from Flushing is very convienent with many bus routes available in Flushing. Ms. Hong uses public transportation very frequently and spends most of her time at traditional Korean dance classes at KCS. 00:57:10 Although Ms. Hong was originally a Buddhist in Korea, in American she found herself attending the church near Kissena Park after her brother became a pastor. Although the church plays a critical role in assisting new Korean immigrants, Ms. Hong feels that the church can be more proactive in strengthening community bonds. She feels that the church should be more active in promoting traditional Korean arts to Korean children. 01:01:55 American society has a tendency to view Koreans born in America as Koreans and not as Americans. She notes that Korean churches in America should take care to assist Korean American adapt with their complex and layered identity during their formative years. 01:03:45 Ms. Hong notes that traditional Korean arts require a successor but so far a successor organization has been hard to establish. Often times traditional Korean art students will choose a non-art major in college. She lastly notes that it is hard to establish strong Korean artistic traditions without a strong sense of identity and duty.  