Cynthia Horner is the Editor in Chief of Hip Hop Weekly Magazine. In the interview, she discusses how she came into the field with her love of reading and her interest in journalism. She also owns a photo agency with her husband and a Public Relations Firm. Cynthia talks about the changes of Hip Hop from when it began in the 1970s and how widespread it is today, all over the world and now even taking Television by storm.  00:00:20 Primarily music, television and film. Within the confine, they have interviews as well as various lifestyle changes and trends such as Trayvon Martin’s death was covered. The birth of celebrity babies. Bring the readers closer into the lives of stars.  00:01:19 Used to be the Editor in Chief of “Right on!” magazine back in the day.  It was a teenage fan oriented publication. Did a lot of photo sessions with the celebrities and had a lot of contests bringing the fans closer to their favorite stars.    00:02:12 Co-owner of a photo agency, “Cinnamon Flix” and is married to Ken Harris who goes by the moniker “Ken the Photographer,” he’s from Queens and so he photographs people from Queens as well as celebrities that were born and raised there such as Jah Rule and LL Cool J.  00:02:45 She also a public relations firm called “Cinnamon CHIPS”. Cinnamon is a screenname she used to use on the internet for social network purposes and Chips is an acronym for Cynthia Horner’s Independent Production Services. Represented various people in the industry including authors. 00:03:25 One of her favorite projects was representing Terry Williams who has a book called “Black Pain” which is about a mental illness and depression in the African American community.  00:03:40 Her PR firm also does Non-profit publicity, “Hal Jackson’s Talented Teens” contest for young ladies that were interested in going into show business.  00:04:00 Currently representing an author named Carl Michel that wrote the book, “365 Hip Hop: Daily Motivational Quotes.” He’s a motivational speaker, his book contains quotes are from different celebrities.  00:05:14 When she was five she got her library card, so she could get books. Her teachers were so impressed that Cynthia knew how to read. She would read to her class while her teachers would grade papers. Classes loved having her read, they were the same age and she was reading, she would add details to the book and change her voices so no one would be bored.  00:06:25 In the 6th grade, Cynthia wanted to be a journalist. In high school, she started writing in the school newspaper. She started writing a column about school activities for the local newspaper which she turned in once a week.  Living in California, Cynthia attended Pepperdine University in Malibu where she majored in Journalism.  00:08:20 After graduation, it was difficult for Cynthia to get a job because of how young she looked. So she decided to work for a younger company where her young appearance didn’t matter. That’s when she got a job at “Right On!” Magazine.  00:10:22  One of her first interviews was with Michael Jackson. They were both shy and nervous people so they got along really well. His father asked her to come over to their house because Michael didn’t have a lot of friends. In their house they had animals that you would see at the zoo. They soon became friends and she was over there all the time and would sometimes even sleepover. 00:13:00 She went to Michael’s funeral. Now that he’s passed away his music is bigger than ever.  00:14:48 A lot of the hip hop stars now have TV shows, which is a very significant thing in the industry today. Back in the 1970s, hip hop songs was just party music. Now it’s a movement that’s been embraced everywhere.  00:17:30 LL Cool J was just a fifteen year old rapper when Cynthia first met him and now he’s a successful TV star whose starring in NCIS. 00:19:21 Hip Hop has given African American people a voice, now a majority of rappers are sending messages of positivity. Rappers like to rap about the conditions in their area, such as violence, crime, or drive-by shootings. By them talking about it, brings it to the attention of the media. The riots in Baltimore, people were crying out and expressing their frustration for conditions that went unnoticed for years. Rappers went down there so they can do press conferences.  00:23:25 Everyone deserves the opportunity to learn to read. People need to go to their public libraries and support programs, so speakers can come and enrich people’s lives.  00:25:40 Cynthia became a good writer because she loved reading. It makes her a good person to interview people, she can speak to people about a variety of subjects. 00:26:08 We’re in a digital age, everything happens by computers, you have to be able to keep up. If you go to the library, they have resources to help you. They have computers and staff that can help you after school. 00:28:00 Literacy and hip hop go hand in hand because hip hop is actually teaching people through the rhymes and messages and if people don’t use those messages responsibly its not having the proper impact. Rappers like Common, always has something positive to say that can very much enrich your life. 00:29:00 Nas was at 92nd Y being interviewed by someone and people were all in silence because what he said was so prolific. They had a Q&A session in the end where students in the audience. 00:30:40  In America we have a lot of in injustices so music is our relief, one way that soothes our spirits and makes us feel better. People are trying harder to send a positive message. 00:31:10 Queens Library has tried to make Cynthia sort of like an ambassador and do programs that can enrich the lives of the community. But this can lead to other speakers to come and talk. We need people who can raise money for libraries; libraries always need money for programs and funds. 00:32:10 Hip hop has changed the face of television. Empire is a music show that has practically an all African American cast with ratings of 25 million people. This has never occurred in the past and so we need to embrace this change.  00:33:01 Now that hip hop has made it to television, it’s created so many jobs. Actors, makeup artists, screen writers, etc. This is a way for African Americans to have a future and now that they’re in the door, there’s no stopping them.  