Kristijana Jakulj was brought up in Split, Croatia.  She came to New York in September 2002 on her honeymoon.  She and her husband stayed (she likes to say that sheÕs still on her honeymoon).  She a hairstylist and worked flat out for eight years without a vacation, before she was able to return to Croatia for a visit: the emotions of the passed time hit her when the plane touched down.  She talks about how she never wanted to be anything but a hairstylist; her memories of the war in Croatia Ð which did not hit Split hard but did Òaffect the whole countryÓ; and how her ideal life would be to spend six months of each year in Croatia and the USA.  Context of interview: Ò30th Ave Ð A year in the life of a streetÓ project (www.30thAve.org). Transcript notes for research  My name is Kristijana, IÕve been a hair stylist for the past 20 years.  IÕve been working here in this salon [GiGi Salon and Styling Studio] from the very opening in 2005, Christmas time.  I do both cut and color.  Last year we were voted as the best salon in NYC according to the website CityÕs Best New York City.    I think really what makes it good is the good team that we have.  ItÕs really well organized is the second thing.  And the third thing is the good management.   This is his [salon owner Ruzdija (Gigi) DzidzovicÕs] only salon.   I was six I think and remember telling my mom, I always wanted to cut her hair.  And every time we went to the bookstores instead of buying a regular kids book I would always look for something with hair.  So my mom was upset because she always wanted me to go into some college or something.  In Croatia being a hairstylist isnÕt really seen that well.  Though the school is much harder than here I would say, itÕs four years of school.  But I remember when I signed up for this and you had to put down three choices.  In case you didnÕt get your first choice of subject you had to put down your second and third choice.  I just left those blank. And the principle came to me and said whatÕs going on Ð I said well if IÕm not going to be a hair stylist IÕm not going to do anything.  What I most enjoy is that itÕs like an art, and you make people very happy.  I also like working on this street because itÕs very inspirational.  ItÕs so nice to know that youÕre making someone really happy.  I moved to New York in September 2002.  Mostly we moved because in Croatia because it was a really bad economy after the war in Croatia.  We left Croatia for our honeymoon and never went back.  I like to say that IÕm still on my honeymoon!   We came on 23 September and I started working in a different hair salon on 26th just afterwards.  And then I worked with no vacation for eight years.    First time I went back to Croatia, it was very emotional.  I hadnÕt seen my mother or father for all that time.  So it was really hard.  We had been in touch.  It was when we touched down in my city that I started crying because itÕs weird but I felt really insecure in my own country.  It was like I donÕt belong here anymore.  It was so weird to hear no English, only my language.  And I was catching myself saying Òthank youÓ.  IÕm from Split, in the North part of Croatia.  I come a couple of days ago now from Croatia. Now whatÕs so weird is that when IÕm here I miss Croatia, and when IÕm in Croatia I miss America.  The ideal will be six months here and six months over there.    I was around 15 / 16 years old during the war in Croatia.  It didnÕt affect so much the part that IÕm from but it did affect the whole country.  I remember us going to school and then sirens warning us to leave the buildings and go under the ground.  And my mom always had the bag of stuff next to her bed.  And we had to turn the lights off after 4pm.   I just moved in May from the apartment we lived in for eight years, on 30th Avenue and 44th Street.  It was very hard to move.  We moved because we realized we really didnÕt need a two-bedroom apartment and we donÕt have people over that much, so we moved to a one bedroom.  IÕm happy with it now.  We live on the same block [street], we just moved from 30th Avenue to 26th Avenue.  But for me it was like moving from Croatia to here!  ItÕs a bit quieter where we are now and also you can hear the train every morning.  People warned us when we moved there about it, but I really love it.   It took a good year to get the salon going.  Aveda helped a lot Ð a lot of clients are drawn by Aveda.   ThatÕs what brings new clients in here normally.  I may be lucky I donÕt really get crazy clients.  Now I usually work with my own clients whose hair I have cut for five years or so.  GiGi used to own a salon on Columbus Avenue in the city, and Manhattan has a different kind of people.  People here are more flexible.  ItÕs different when you pay $600 for color instead of $300 Ð when you pay $600 you expect to look like a god or whatever.    There are a lot of Croatians here, a lot of Croatian bars, restaurants and things.  A lot of them are on Broadway.  