Isabel Jennings was born in Puerto Rico and brought up in Astoria.  She had been living in Atlanta Georgia, but moved back to New York recently to be near her daughter who had just had a son.  She lives in upper Manhattan but found a job back in Astoria, as a nurse in the emergency department at Mount Sinai hospital on 30th Ave.  She does not enjoy the late shift that she works (from 11am to 11.30pm).  The work is intense because the hospital is small and very busy; she says that the area needs more hospitals.  Context of interview: Ò30th Ave Ð A year in the life of a streetÓ project (www.30thAve.org). Transcript notes for research  My name is Isabel Jennings.  IÕm a registered nurse.  I work in the emergency department at Mount Sinai Hospital.  Actually I started in July.  I was working in Atlanta Georgia before.  I actually grew up in Astoria, and IÕve been gone for 20 years.  And my daughter who is studying at Columbia university she and her husband were having their first child, my first grandchild.  So I came to help them. And I found a job here.   I have mixed feelings about coming back.  New York CityÉitÕs an adjustment period for me although I grew up here and went to school here, itÕs still been an adjustment.  ItÕs changed a bit.  But I do love the diversity here, all types of people, thatÕs just great.  It is extremely busy in the emergency department.  I was not prepared for the immensity of it.  The hospital is very small, the building is I think 150 years old, itÕs a very small place and extremely busy.  ItÕs the only hospital here for a good distance.  So itÕs quite intense to work there.   Yes, there are people coming in because they donÕt have insurance Ð more so.  We do anything from keeping someone alive to assuring someone that their cough will go away if they follow the doctorÕs instructions.  ItÕs quite intense, yes.  I try not to [take the experiences home with me at the end of the day].  I donÕt live here anymore.  I live in uptown Manhattan so I try to defuse all the emotions by the time I get home.  I work 11am till 11.30 at night.  12 hours, three days a week.  ItÕs a busy shift, yeah.  I enjoy helping people.  I do not enjoy the shift that IÕm working.  IÕm used to working 7 in the morning till 7 in the evening, this is a rough shift.   And I do not enjoy the health care system in this country.  It just presents problems, you canÕt really help everyone.  I think we need an effective national healthcare program.  And we also need a few more hospitals in this area Ð we need an expansion around Mount Sinai Queens.  I was born in Puerto Rico, grew up in Astoria.  