Joginder Paul Jindal grew up in India. He worked in business there after his studies and lived in a joint family system for most of his life. He got married in 1974. He has one daughter living in the US and his eldest son lives in India. He came to the US in 2010 after his daughter applied for an immigrant visa for him and his wife. He had always wanted to come to America but did not enjoy America at first because he did not have much to do. Later as he engaged with other Indian, Punjabi, and Tibetan members of his community in Sunnyside he feels much better. He does not do any work as of now, but spends his days at his son-in-lawÕs gas station and his friends perfume shop. He also describes religious places in India that he has visited with friends.  00:00:43: He passed high school in India and continued to college but did not complete college. Opened a business in 1973 and lived in a joint family home in India with all his uncles, grandmother and grandfather. His father had his own business but soon divided the business and JoginderÕs children grew up within the business as well. Married in 1974.  00:03:35: Joginder always wanted to come and live in the US. JoginderÕs sister lived in Chicago but never applied for the immigrant visa for him. Later after his daughter was married in India, she came to live in the US and she applied for her parents to come live in America 00:05:00: Joginder first lived in Corona, then Astoria, and currently lives in Sunnyside. Sometimes as he is walking in Sunnyside, he can bump into Indian or Punjabi people. He can recognize them by the turban they wear. Sometimes if they know Bengali or Hindi, they can still communicate and they can relate. On his way to the interview, he got lost and was able to get directions from a man who spoke Hindi. He usually guesses by looking at the face if they can speak Hindi or not. 00:07:15: When he goes to parks in Sunnyside, there are a lot of people from Tibet there that speak Punjabi. When he and his wife first came to the US in 2012, he and his wife were sitting in a park and a Tibit lady sat next to them and started speaking to them in Punjabi. From going to the park they met and became friends with about 20 families. 00:09:00: The culture here is very sweet, if you ask anyone and let them know that you know little English, they talk to you very nicely and speak slowly and politely to you. In Chicago, there are also Punjabi and Gujrati people just like in New York.  00:11:27: JoginderÕs son in law has a gas station. To pass his time he goes to the gas station. Other than that he doesnÕt do any work. His children did not go to school here, they grew up in India , married, then moved to the US. His son in law also drives a cab.  00:13:47: At first, he didnÕt like being in the US, he would just sit in the house and watch TV. He wasnÕt able to find work because most people want strong young men for work. He then went to India for 2 years. Now he feels much better than before. He passes time with his Indian friends. He has a friend in Sunnyside who sells perfume and he sits with him sometimes and passes time.  00:16:40: he enjoys all religions and thinks that God created all people the same way and equally. He attends an Indian temple in Woodside on 56th street. They do poojas (prayers) at home here and the children sometimes play with the firecrackers for celebrations. He hasnÕt really tried to get to know his neighbors that well. The culture between here and India is very different. In India you canÕt say hello or good morning to others, but here you are able to do that.  00:20:30: once in Chicago, he was walking with his friend. Behind them, two bicyclists were heading towards them. He moved to the side for them, and they said thank you to him and he also said thank you to them.  00:22:22: in the parks that he attends, there are a lot of Bengalis and Pakistanis, but not a lot of Indians. Through these park meetings he has made friends and sometime they invite each other for homemade food. There are a lot of Tibet people who have their own stories and own businesses and they also speak Hindi. They watch Hindi movies and that is how they know the language 00:26:06: He doesnÕt have any of his close friends in the US, they are all in India. Photograph of Manikar: Manikar is a religious place in India. It is special because there is a river with cold water, by it there is water that is very hot and steamy. People put a bag of rice in that water and in 10 minutes the rice is ready. No one knows where this hot water comes from, comes from the ground. The weather there is very cold and they have to wear good shoes because of the cold. In Dheradhun, there is water that comes from the mountain, and people who are sick go there to bathe in that water and they become better.  00:32:00: He misses India a lot because his sons and his grandchildren are there. Here everyone is busy and working. In India, people have more time and the women donÕt work they stay home and cook while the men work. He likes here any people can talk to one another, but in India many people canÕt talk to one another because of the Caste system. There is more freedom here than in India.    