Ekta Kaur was born and raised in Punjab, India. She came to the US shortly after getting married. Her husband has been living in the US since he was five years old. She immigrated to the US in 2012. She currently resides in Richmond Hill, NY in a house with her husband and her in-laws. She completed a one year internship in the Queens Library and is currently looking for jobs. She speaks of her diverse community in Richmond Hill and how she enjoys it very much. She and her husband celebrate many Indian holidays and frequently attend religious temples nearby. She also describes some of her favorite places in India.  00:00:20: Ekta Kaur is from India, and she has a MS IT in Computer Science from Punjab, India. She is 27 years old. In 2013, she did an internship in Queens Library.  00:01:30: She got married and then got her MS IT. Her husband came to India from the US and met her. Their meeting was arranged through her aunt and they liked each other and decided to get married. They got married one month after they met. She came to New York in April 25th, 2012.  00:03:55: when she first came here, she was just living at home for a few months and then she started her internship at the Queens Library IT department in September 2012. EktaÕs husband is a cab driver. Her husbandÕs friend worked in the Queens Library and he helped her to get the internship that she worked in for almost a year.  00:06:30: Ekta can speak Hindi, Punjabi, English. She mentions that India has about 18 languages. She learned English in India. For her major, computer science, all the studies were in English. When she came here, she learned more English by seeing how people speak here. At home, she speaks Punjabi mostly and English with her husband.  00:09:05: Lives in Richmond Hill, in a house. She lives with her in laws and her husband. There is a large Sikh community in Richmond Hill. There are a lot of Punjabis and temples. Everything is close by, all the malls and stores. She finds the community to be helpful. In her neighborhood, there are Jewish people and Guyanese people making the community diverse. They are very friendly. 00:12:25: Religion is very important in lives of Indians. They celebrate Diwali here, and Holi. She also does the Karva Chauth, the one day fast women perform for her husbandÕs life. Her husband isnÕt really fond of that holiday as he grew up in the US. She and her sister in law go to the temple and do their prayer. They also celebrate Holi, they wish each other and put some colored powder on each otherÕs cheeks. She attends temples, there are many temples in NY and they go to temples many times. 00:17:42: They go to temples to ask god for an increase in money and for a smooth, trouble free life. People here are friendly and they help you, but the society here is very different in India. There are not a lot of educated people there. 00:21:10: Always wanted to go into the computer science field. Her father suggested it to her and she really enjoyed it. She also has a cosmetics course that she completed in India 00:22:18: Education is very important in India. In some places, there are places that donÕt have school and the children and adults are not educated. A lot of children in India want to go to other states to get their education. People go to Delhi, Chandighar and Bombay to get educated.  00:24:28: For their anniversary, they went on Spirit cruise in Manhattan, NY. They went to the Brooklyn bridge and had lunch and champagne. It was a gift from her sister in law. Most of her family is in India and in England.  00:27:28: Her husband enjoys Indian holidays even though he has been in the US from 5 years. Ekta would love to continue her education if she got the chance. She hasnÕt been back to India since she came here and she misses her family there. If she gets a job, she will try to apply for her mom to come to the US.  00:31:30: She really likes Rego Park and Manhattan. She really wants to see the Christmas tree in NYC. They also love to celebrate Christmas and on Christmas Eve they do secret santa. She likes to attend the Queens mall and Roosevelt mall. 00:35:16: She attended Adventureland, she remembers a ride on a ship. She enjoyed it very much. She also enjoyed all the animals in the Bronx Zoo. Growing up in India, theyÕve been to Mathas with her family where there are temples. They used to go for a whole month. The temples were up in mountains. They also went to Shimlas where it snows in India. They also attend the museums in the mountains. The Hindu religion has 33 gods and all the gods represent something different.  0040:19: She enjoys watching animated movies regarding Hindu religion at the movie theaters.  