Kiranjeet Kaur moved to the US in 2010 from India after she married her husband. She met her husband through her uncle. She has been residing in Richmond Hill since she immigrated to the U.S. She has two sons, one of which attends P.S. 62. She speaks mainly Punjabi, and Hindi and English infrequently. She learned English when she moved here through television, shopping outside and taking ESL classes. Her children also know English well. She misses India and wants to go back someday and see all her family. Her favorite place in NY is Manhattan.    00:00:30: Kiranjeet Kaur moved to the United States in 2010. She immigrated because her husband was living here. She was married in India. Her marriage was arranged through her uncle, who knew her husband previously. She was engaged for 2 years before she was married. 00:02:00: She first lived in Richmond Hill when she came and still resides there. There are many Sikh temples in Richmond Hill and there is a very large Sikh community where she lives. She attends the temple almost every day. She goes for programs on Sundays, and also for birthdays. There they listen to religious lectures and she always takes her children there. Her children enjoy it there. 00:05:05: Her older son attends P.S.62. He speaks English at school and Punjabi at home. Kiranjeet learned English after she came to the US, she learned by watching TV, going out and shopping, and taking ESL classes at Queens Library. In Richmond Hill, she usually speaks Punjabi to those that know Punjabi, and she also speaks Hindi and English with others as well. 00:07:00: She lives in apartment with her husband and 2 kids. She doesn’t have any other family members here so that is why they don’t have a joint family system. When she first came here, she missed having a joint family system, but now she has gotten used to living without it. She prefers to live Richmond Hill; all the neighbors she meets are very nice. There are Punjabi, Guyanese, Muslim people residing there too. 00:10:00: At the park, there are a lot of Punjabi people. Her son plays there with the kids there. He knows how to speak English well so he makes friends easily there. Kiranjeet says that the neighborhood in Richmond Hill is okay except for the fact that it’s not cleaned often enough. She usually uses the bus, train to get around and also walks.  00:13:00: Kiranjeet wants to go back to India because all of her family is there. Her most favorite thing about NY is the city of Manhattan and she really likes the statue of Liberty.   