My name is Brian King.  I’ve been in the area about two and half months now.  We’re just starting up Vape Generation.  We’re trying to get people to quit in a nice healthier way, giving people very much options.  We’re talking ingest or otherwise, with varying rates of nicotine from zero all the way up to eighteen milligrams for the heavy smokers.  That way they don’t go through withdrawals if they are trying to kick.   We got very many different vessels to use as vaporizers, a lot of different kinds.  You buy a vapor liquid, it comes with a cartridge to hold it on top, and there’s the battery on the bottom, and the battery determines the amount of life you are going to get of course.  And it has a little heating element inside that atomizes the liquid, and instead of turning it into a smoke it’s actually a vapor, although you are exhaling, it looks like smoke, but it’s not.  It gives you the oral fixation for it.  And it tastes good, and it smells good too. People’s boyfriends and girlfriends are happy when they are not smoking because they don’t have to kiss an ashtray anymore. I was just a user of vapors, I lived in California, and I had seen several friends had some, so… I knew a little bit about it, I didn’t realize how much more learning I had to do as we got into this business though.   The places that I had gone to before only had a limited supply of vaping devices, so I didn’t know the full broad range until I moved over here to New York where vaping is a little bit more…it’s starting up quite a bit larger than it would in California - because of Prop 215; which made other things legal to smoke in California.   It’s a good thing to do outside the bar.  I mean, you don’t stink when you’re done with it, that’s the main thing, I think.  There’s nothing worse than coming in and breathing on somebody with tobacco smoke, “Hiiii, how arrrrre you?!”  , doesn’t work out too well. We have the products from many different manufacturers; we are still stocking the shop.  We will be the best stocked shop with liquids and devices and with knowledge of our products as well.  We order all of our liquids in the United States which means a lot because some of the overseas stuff is made with inferior quality liquids.  Pesticide grades of nicotine, instead of pharmaceutical grades that you get here.   We are ordering some liquids from Europe as well.  It’s propylene glycol which is pharmaceutical and food grade, and glycerin – a vegetable glycerin – and that’s food or pharmaceutical grade as well.   It’s mostly the young folks that know about it but a lot of the older folks that come in and are trying to quit smoking – they have a lot of questions.  And being able to answer their questions for them and let them know what’s going on…they usually work out the door with something.  We don’t have a high-pressure sale here, we are more about education and then if you want the product after I educate you that’s fine, and if you don’t, that’s alright too. Just started working here about 10 days ago, when we opened the shop.  I was in San Francisco before.   I really like Astoria.  It’s friendly people…a little bit busier than I am used to, but it’s a lot friendlier a happier folks.  When you get somebody to stop and talk to you they are actually willing to give you a bit more time than they would in San Francisco.  If you’re lost looking for somewhere, people will actually get on your phone and ask other people.  They will try and help you to get what it is you need to get.  I personally would like to start a wall full of photos of people who have stopped smoking, and can come in and update it, with month marks on the photo or something like that, and have a whole wall full of people.  I just vape now.   I had an oral fixation, I had to do something with my mouth, I was chewing on pens and pencils, toothpicks, and eating lollipops, and then I found vaping.  Well I knew about it already and then it was like ‘hey, that’s what I need to go do.”  So I went to a shop and they were very low-pressure, they taught me a little bit, and I realized that would be the type of shop I would like to work in – where you can educate people and let them make the decision of whether they want to get something or not.  Before I worked in construction, most of my life.  I’m not willing to work in ice though!   Write-up: A new arrival on 30th Avenue is “Vapor Generation” at 36-20B.  I quit smoking about five years ago when I became pregnant with my first child: while I’ve noticed vaping stores popping up around the neighborhood and people standing outside bars with their vape pens, vaping has been a bit of a mystery to me.  So I spoke with Vapor Generation’s Brian King to find out more.  Brian moved to Astoria from California two and a half months ago.  He started working with Vapor Generation when it opened in late February.   ‘We’re trying to get people to quit in a nice healthier way, giving people many options,” he says.  “We’re talking ingest or otherwise, with varying rates of nicotine from zero all the way up to eighteen milligrams for the heavy smokers.  That way they don’t go through withdrawals if they are trying to kick.” The store has a long counter where customers can test the products and glass cabinets where they are on display: the battery-powered vaping devices, and the liquids which go inside them.  Along one wall is a black and white image of a lamp-lit street in Paris.  “There’s a heating element inside that atomizes the liquid,’ says Brian.  “Instead of turning it into a smoke it’s actually a vapor.  You are exhaling, and it looks like smoke, but it’s not.” He adds: “It tastes good, and it smells good too.  People’s boyfriends and girlfriends are happy when they are not smoking because they don’t have to kiss an ashtray anymore.” Brian, who formerly worked in construction, started using vapors in California.   “I had to do something with my mouth,” he says.  “I was chewing on pens and pencils, toothpicks, and eating lollipops, and then I found vaping.”  Until he got into the business, however, he did not realize how many options were available.  Vape Generation sources its liquids from the US and Europe – avoiding other overseas sources given risks of them containing harmful ingredients such as pesticides.   The liquids they sell contain pharmaceutical- or food-grade propylene glycol and glycerin. Vaping is picking up quicker in New York than in California, Brian says, “because of Prop 215, which has made other things legal to smoke in California.”  (Prop 215 is the legislation allowing medical marijuana).   While many of Vape Generation’s customers are young, older long-time smokers are also venturing in.  Brian sees it as his role to educate them.  “A lot of the older folks that come in and are trying to quit smoking – they have a lot of questions.  It’s good to be able to answer their questions for them and let them know what’s going on.” Brian says that Astoria “has friendly people…it’s a little bit busier than I am used to.  But when you get somebody to stop and talk to you they are actually willing to give you a bit more time than they would in San Francisco.  If you’re lost looking for somewhere, people will actually get on your phone and ask other people.  They will try and help you get what you need.” My name is Brian King.  I’ve been in the area about two and half months now.  We’re just starting up Vape Generation.  We’re trying to get people to quit in a nice healthier way, giving people very much options.  We’re talking ingest or otherwise, with varying rates of nicotine from zero all the way up to eighteen milligrams for the heavy smokers.  That way they don’t go through withdrawals if they are trying to kick.   We got very many different vessels to use as vaporizers, a lot of different kinds.  You buy a vapor liquid, it comes with a cartridge to hold it on top, and there’s the battery on the bottom, and the battery determines the amount of life you are going to get of course.  And it has a little heating element inside that atomizes the liquid, and instead of turning it into a smoke it’s actually a vapor, although you are exhaling, it looks like smoke, but it’s not.  It gives you the oral fixation for it.  And it tastes good, and it smells good too. People’s boyfriends and girlfriends are happy when they are not smoking because they don’t have to kiss an ashtray anymore. I was just a user of vapors, I lived in California, and I had seen several friends had some, so… I knew a little bit about it, I didn’t realize how much more learning I had to do as we got into this business though.   The places that I had gone to before only had a limited supply of vaping devices, so I didn’t know the full broad range until I moved over here to New York where vaping is a little bit more…it’s starting up quite a bit larger than it would in California -because of Prop 215, which made other things legal to smoke in California.   It’s a good thing to do outside the bar.  I mean, you don’t stink when you’re done with it, that’s the main thing, I think.  There’s nothing worse than coming in and breathing on somebody with tobacco smoke, “Hiiii, how arrrrre you?!”  Doesn’t work out too well. We have the products from many different manufacturers; we are still stocking the shop.  We will be the best stocked shop with liquids and devices and with knowledge of our products as well.  We order all of our liquids in the United States which means a lot because some of the overseas stuff is made with inferior quality liquids.  Pesticide grades of nicotine, instead of pharmaceutical grades that you get here.   We are ordering some liquids from Europe as well.  It’s propylene glycol which is pharmaceutical and food grade, and glycerin – a vegetable glycerin – and that’s food or pharmaceutical grade as well.   It’s mostly the young folks that know about it Just started working here about 10 days ago, when we opened the shop.  I was in San Francisco before.   I really like Astoria.  It’s friendly people…a little bit busier than I am used to, but it’s a lot friendlier a happier folks.  When you get somebody to stop and talk to you they are actually willing to give you a bit more time than they would in San Francisco.  If you’re lost looking for somewhere, people will actually get on your phone and ask other people.  They will try and help you to get what it is you need to get.  I personally would like to start a wall full of photos of people who have stopped smoking, and can come in and update it, with month marks on the photo or something like that, and have a whole wall full of people.  I just vape now.   I had an oral fixation, I had to do something with my mouth, I was chewing on pens and pencils, toothpicks, and eating lollipops, and then I found vaping.  Well I knew about it already and then it was like ‘hey, that’s what I need to go do.”  So I went to a shop and they were very low-pressure, they taught me a little bit, and I realized that would be the type of shop I would like to work in – where you can educate people and let them make the decision of whether they want to get something or not.  Before I worked in construction, most of my life.  I’m not willing to work in ice though!      