Jasoda has been a long-term resident of Queens and Brooklyn. In the interview, she discussed about the problems that the neighborhoods have been facing and she discussed about her opinions and solution to those problem. She also discussed about her experience about her neighborhood and what kind of people that she have deal with in Queens. 

00:00:01	Jasoda’s home was built in 1935 and it was located in Brooklyn, NY. She moved to Queens after that and she stayed there till this day.
00:00:51	the neighbors in Brooklyn were mostly African American. Jasoda believes that raising kids in Brooklyn in that neighborhood wasn’t really that great. When she moved to Queens, the neighbor in her neighborhood was a little prejudice. One of her neighbors was very angry at Jasoda for buying the house, and disrespecting her for no reason.
00:01:52	Jasoda sees that in her neighborhood, things start to change a lot. When her original neighbor moved out and new neighbors came in, people in their neighborhood don’t get involved with anyone’s business. People live their own life in their neighborhood.
00:02:28	physically, the neighborhood starts change a little: the Department of Health plants trees for them, redoes the roads, create houses for people, and they try to make the neighborhood look nicer than before.
00:03:25	the transportations that was around the area was the MTA buses and trains. Jasoda, now, doesn’t take the public transportation anymore; she drives now and she is having an easier time to get to places now. 
00:04:00	majority in her neighborhood, there are indo-Americans. There is a Catholic Church in her block. Jasoda is also Hindu.
00:04:37	Jasoda went to Prospect High School for her GED. She went Helen Fall School of Nursing, where she got her nursing degree. She sent her children at P.S. 63. Her eldest daughter went to Forest Hill High School and her youngest daughter went to John Bowne High School. 
00:05:29	in her neighborhood, the neighbors are planting new trees in the block. Jasoda said that her neighborhood is called “The neighborhood of Mafia”. 
00:06:28	Jasoda’s best personal memories is when she had this one neighbor that always offered her Christmas Gift every Christmas. That neighbor was very nice, respectful, and cheerful. He always kept saying hello to her at the window. However, that neighbor had a tragic car accident and Jasoda found out he passed away after she noticed a red Christmas hat on the floor and heard the news.
00:07:36	there aren’t that many parks in their neighborhood. The people used the parks for practice for almost every sport.
00:08:36	Jasoda wishes that one day, one Indo-American would become a Councilman, who will look after their needs and rights. 
00:09:23	Jasoda wishes that the cars in the neighborhood to change because they have been drug dealings in the neighborhood lately. Drug dealing has been too dominated in her neighborhood. 
00:10:32	Jasoda’s concern about zoning is the kids because sometimes when the kids go to school, they tend to go somewhere very far away and they could be late for school.     
