The longer of these two interviews is from May 22, 2013.  We only have about five minutes of recording from the interview Luizzo did with Lee on May 7, 2013.  Norma C. Lee was born in 1941 in the West Indies island of Jamaica.  She lived in Manhattan on 105th Street as a child, moved down to 81st Street after marrying her husband Robert Lee and then moved to her current home in Laurelton in 1971.  Whether in her workplace, her neighborhood or her children’s school, Norma always takes a leading role in improving her community and fostering good relationships amongst people.  Working as a nurse in different hospitals, Norma was involved in organizing staff parties and events.  She attends neighborhood block committees that are responsible for welcoming new neighbors and planning initiatives to beautify Laurelton.  Today, Norma notes that Laurelton faces many challenges.  The neighborhood is now mostly home to renters who are not planning to permanently settle in the area and are therefore not as invested in the improvement of the community.  Parks and recreational areas have become dirt lots.  Residents have to tolerate noise pollution from airplane and train thoroughfare without receiving any compensation or assistance from the MTA or other government agencies.  Despite these challenges, Norma highly enjoys living in Laurelton and is not planning to move.  She hopes that future Laurelton residents, including her children, take active roles in maintaining their homes and beautifying the neighborhood. 00:01:00: Lived in Manhattan on 105th Street as a child and went to school in that area.  Moved to 81st Street after marrying her husband Robert Lee (a Chinese American); they had close access to Central Park and the area’s different museums. 00:02:03:  However, the apartment elevator often malfunctioned.  This became problematic after Norma had her first child.  Her friend suggested that she buy a house in Queens.  She settled in her current house in Laurelton because it felt like home with the comforts of a home.  00:03:40: Apartment in Manhattan became very chilly and uncomfortable during cold days.  Landlord rationed heat very strictly.  Norma enjoys being able to control the heat settings in her Laurelton home, and to have a basement and backyard for the children   00:04:25: Kids could play safely in open backyard and basement.   Overall, there were a lot of people sharing the house.  Husband’s daughter from previous marriage, Lai Ping (a registered nurse), and her (Lai Ping’s) daughter Carlotta also lived in house.  Norma’s mother decided to move to Brooklyn to be with her sisters. 00:05:33: Moved to Queens in 1971.  Norma’s house was built in a Spanish colonial stucco style.   00:07:32: Paid $32,000 for her house.  Norma feels that a person’s salary should not be a deciding factor in purchasing a house.  Salaries can change over the course of a person’s lifetime.  Life circumstances change; people may decide to further their education in the future giving them a sufficient increase in finances. 00:09:12: Neighbors were mostly white when she first moved in.  However, people (whites) started to move out.  When blacks moved in, they found that the previous white residents did not maintain the houses very well.  Blacks worked hard to remodel and beautify their houses.  For example, they added new shingles and rooms.       00:10:38: Neighbors formed house beautification and neighborhood committees/block associations.  Norma tried to be helpful and welcoming to new neighbors. 00:11:22: Whites who left were mostly Italian, Irish and Jewish.  Norma purchased the house from a Jewish family surnamed Goldberg.  Shortly after she settled, blacks started to move into the neighborhood.  00:13:18: Tried to settle new neighbors into the area.  For example, she tried to welcome and help settle a new family from Jamaica.  Eventually, that family decided to relocate to Brooklyn. 00:14:10: Majority of people now are Haitians.  One-family houses have mostly become rentals.  Three to four families now occupy one house.  Most people who move to Laurelton do not plan to settle in the area.  People now “come and go.” 00:15:17: Most renters are not invested in their neighborhood.  They do not try to beautify the neighborhood.  Littering has become a common problem.  Also, people (renters) often do not inform the post-office of address changes.  Mail addressed to previous residents often pile up and litter the neighborhood. 00:16:47: New coming young Haitians seem to be care more about the community.  They sweep their front yards and keep the streets clean. 00:17:29: Daughter is currently a principal of a school and is also pursuing her doctorate at Hofstra University.  Her son and grandson attended P.S. 156.  00:18:35: P.S 156 is now closing because of poor academic performance.  Norma feels that parents should get more involved in their child’s education.  They should, for example, attend PTA meetings and see what’s going on with their children.  Lack of parental involvement in the school may be a principal reason why the school is closing. 00:19:57: Laurelton was a very integrated community.  Whites and blacks lived together with no feuds and got along very well.  People often got together for parties, barbeques and picnics.  Children could ride their bicycles safely on the streets. 00:22:19: Laurelton Park has now become storage area for dirt piles and the place has been basically ruined.  Breeze blows dirt throughout the park.  The park’s decline began when drug addicts began to frequent the area during the 1970s.   00:23:32: Norma worked as a nurse at the Methadone center, where she took care of private pain patients.  A rehab center called the Trump Pavilion, named after Donald Trump’s father, was opened.  Norma began working there shortly after it opened.  Trump Pavilion took in a lot of patients from nursing homes that closed down (usually because of mismanagement). 00:25:36: People working in Trump Pavilion were very active and involved in different committees and social events.  There were many staff parties.  For example, some of the staff joined disco dancing classes taught by a teacher that Norma recruited.  Overall, people always got together for different events. 00:28:58: Norma initially did not have a car when she first moved to Laurelton.  Her friends would drive her to a supermarket or she would walk to the supermarket and then take a cab home after purchasing groceries. 00:30:02: When Norma was first settling in Laurelton, she still kept her position as a nurse at Doctor’s Hospital in Manhattan.  In her commute, she had to take the LIRR into Manhattan, then take an uptown train and then catch the crosstown bus.  She always had to rush to make sure she timed her commute perfectly with the public transit timetable.   00:31:40: Many rich and famous people were treated at Doctor’s Hospital. 00:32:55: The hospital was very welcoming and considerate towards their patients.  The facility was never short on staff.  Catering was provided for patients and their families.  Lounges and private bathrooms were provided for the nurses.   00:34:26: Norma mostly gets around by car now.  She enjoys finding different places, getting around the neighborhood and overall being independently mobile.   00:34:55: When Norma moved to Laurelton during the 1970s, the bus ride, especially along Merrick Blvd, was very bumpy and uncomfortable.  However, the road along the bus route has since been fixed and the ride is smoother. 00:35:50: Laurelton is home to a mixture of religious traditions.  There are Catholics, Protestants, Episcopalians, Baptists, etc.  However, church attendance has declined. 00:36:45: Norma planted corn on her lawn.  She comments that the corn was the nicest and sweetest she has ever had.  Other people also decided to plant corn after seeing Norma’s crops. 00:37:22: Today, Norma enjoys planting different vegetables including tomatoes, cucumbers and pea plants.  Her front lawn also has flowers, including irises that her son in law gave to her twenty years ago. 00:40:55: Norma hopes that her family continues to maintain the house.  She feels that the house needs some fixing (e.g. new door, new roof).  Maintaining and keeping the Laurelton house could provide important insurance for her family against unexpected difficulties such as inclement weather.  For example, her daughter’s house in Valley Stream was flooded during Hurricane Sandy.  00:42:35: Twin Pond today is now a mess.  There used to be good ice skating at the pond.  Norma feels that the parks department should be more responsible for cleaning up natural recreation areas in Laurelton. 00:44:50: Airplane traffic has become an acute problem in Laurelton.  Noise pollution from plane engines has become a severe problem.  People living within a certain radius of the airport should receive compensation.  The government should make their houses soundproof.   00:46:08: There is a plane going by every three minutes.  Eventually, new residents get used to the noise.  Norma has been trying to fight against any rerouting of planes that would negatively affect the Laurelton community.  However, it seems that the people who make these decisions (on airplane routes) do not take the opinions of the Laurelton residents into consideration.  Laurelton neighborhood committees are not recruited into the decision process. 00:47:23: Money was allocated to MTA as compensation for Laurelton residents.  However, that compensation was never given to the residents.  It is necessary for the residents to get this compensation to repair cracks in their houses as a result of the huge amount of train/airplane traffic. 00:48:18:  Daughter’s first house was in Rosedale.  Something in that house made her really sick and also compromised the health of the previous residents’ son.  There is some grave health hazard present in that area.   Start of separate 00:05:21 recording from May 7, 2013 00:00:28: Norma would often hold parties at her house for her kids and their friends.  They particularly enjoyed hanging out in the basement.  The children would also play in the backyard and front yard. 00:02:19: Today, dirt from dirt piles in Laurelton Park flies all over the place and lands on top of people’s cars. 00:02:48: There used to be block parties.  However, after a number of years strangers used to come and take the food, leading to severe arguments.  Because of these incidents, the block parties were ended. 00:03:15: Norma has attended the Assembly of God church over the past twenty years.  However, she hasn’t really gone to church this year. 00:04:00: Norma hopes that the roofs of the homes would be replaced with the original Spanish style tiles and that the cracks in the houses will be repaired.     