So many musicians live in Astoria but they always have to leave Astoria to play their gigs. ItÕs the one borough that doesnÕt have a music venue.  There is the AMA Ð Astoria Music and Arts, a non-profit Ð they put on bands in Astoria Park.  IÕve lived in Brooklyn before as well.  You have those old families who have been there for a long time but they are more cultured.  People who are from the neighborhood here, it seems that they have never left the neighborhood ever.   I was living in Jersey.  My girlfriend at the time was living in Paris; she came back here to finish up her Masters and was going to Columbia University.  We started looking in Harlem and here.  That was right when AstoriaÕs prices were going up and up, about four years ago.   You donÕt get that hectic-ness from the city.  You feel like youÕre in a village almost.  Though there are a lot of places that blast techno music and thatÕs totally different from the culture here.    One thing thatÕs missing a lot are little clothing boutiques, arts and crafts things, more artistic influences.  And venues for musicians to go out and play; ItÕs hard to find live music here.  I was born in Brazil moved here when I was one and a half years old.  I grew up on Roosevelt Island till I was12 or 13 and then we moved to Jersey.  My Dad worked for an insurance company in Brazil Ð he was relocated to open up a branch in New York.  We originally came here just to be here for two years.  ThatÕs what my DadÕs contract was and thatÕs what they wanted Ð they didnÕt want to live here permanently.  All their extended family was back in Brazil etc.  At the end of those 2 years they renewed their contract, then renewed again.  When people hear I grew up on Roosevelt Island they say Òwho, what, why?Ó  A few years after my family left they started building a lot of low income housing there so the atmosphere has changed a lot there.  There used to be a lot of parks and it was tranquil.  ItÕs its own little world that you would never imagine being next to Manhattan.  A lot of my familyÕs friends were United Nations workers, translators and so forth, it was just so convenient.    Because a lot of my friends were UN workers they now live all over the place.  I drew caricatures of my teachers during high school Ð one time one of the teachers put my drawing of him up onto the overhead projector he usually used to show us the assignment for a week.  He loved it.  That teacher took it well but one of them called my parents in Ð he said I found these and put the paper on the table.  My Dad started laughing and couldnÕt stop.  They guy just got more and more upset.   So I always had a knack for drawing.  I never thought of it in terms of making a career out of it until senior year of high school and thatÕs when I first had an art class.  Then I started working on my portfolio immediately to get into schools, and got into Pratt Institute.   That was very eye opening because everyone around me either came from art-oriented high school or grew up with art tutors, and there I was deciding in my senior year. IÕve been doing freelance gigs, right now IÕm working at MOMA museum doing window museum change-overs.  In terms of fine art I donÕt have that steady work yet Ð I get commissions here and there or sell a work here or there or do a mural here or there.  The owner [of Vesta Trattoria] approached me and said he wanted me to do something on that wall.  He came up with the idea, for a farm scene, with a cow, pigs etc.  And I just twisted it a little bit so that the cow and the pig are looking into the window thatÕs in the middle of the wall, as if to say Òoh so thatÕs where our friends went.Ó  Painting and outside mural has a lot more work involved because the surface has so much more texture.   The one here in my back yard is 20 feet long; the one at Vesta is 25 feet long.  The best part is the feedback from pedestrians.    Thank god IÕd already got my stage fright out of the way with this program I used to participate in at the Met.  I used to copy master paintings in the galleries.  I was concentrating on this painting, tweaking the face and everything, and I just heard ÒwhatÕs wrong with his eyes?Ó  I looked down and there was this 3 foot long little kid.  And they are always dead on too.  I looked at the painting and thought yeah the eyes are off.  I always wanted to have feedback while a lot of the other artists would put headphones on.  ItÕs fun to see people appreciating things that youÕre doing.    Mundo [restaurant, at 31-18 Broadway in Astoria] want me to do a mural Ð thereÕs an old beat-up mural there and theyÕd like me to do a mural there, whatever I want to paint.  I paint with oil paint, pastels, watercolor, pencils, acrylic, as long as I can put it on paper.  I like pen and ink Ð I think thatÕs my forte.  That came to me naturally, before I had art class or anything like that.  Most all of my drawings in pen are with the cheapest pen that you can buy the bic pen.  I grew up with that, using it in school, and I love how it works.  Oil I started painting with oil. Acrylic is a totally different process.   My influences include Van Gogh, Velasquez, Peter Paul Rubens, and Jean Luis David.  When I moved here was right before the bubble burst and then right after the bubble burst a lot of Brazilians started to go back to Brazil.   I know a few other artists in Astoria but there isnÕt that much unity among artists here.  About a year ago I was wanting to start a collective, but I think I had a bigger vision than what the others intended Ð I wanted it to include professional artists from all boroughs to pool talent together.  The others wanted to just include people in Astoria and I didnÕt want that.  I thought we could put on a big event or venue to include all arts, music, dancing, painters, sculptures Ðthrough it all together under one roof.   Also in New York itÕs kind of difficult because everybody is so busy and hardly has time for themselves - let alone for anything else.  ThatÕs what I found- people were very willing until the moment they had to do something.  A lot of what I have developed as one of my styles is sort of surrealistic Ð itÕs kind of my philosophy of life where everything is intertwined, so negative shapes are creating positive shapes of other things, so things morphing in and out of each other.  I always try to keep things moving, fluid.  And I try to keep the elements in mind Ð went through a phase when I particularly tried to represent that; so light, space as in depth, earth as in land mass, and water moving through it.    I saw a documentary regarding the Afghanistan BuddhaÕs and I was thinking whatÕs the most noble artwork to engage with?  For me thatÕs something monumental that reaches you in a spiritual way.    I thought it would be amazing to chisel a Buddha into a 100ft cliff.  That would be an ultimate masterpiece.  Obviously IÕm not doing to do that.  So I try to make it more reasonable.  IÕll take a piece of paper and think how can I make this piece of paper monumental.  Also thatÕs why I started detailing it really fine.  I want to create works that force people to pay attention, that have so much going on that the person  so that they can travel within it.  Also so that every time they look at it they see something else in it.  ItÕs a lesson in focusing.   Here in New York I feel that art should be completely accessible to everyone.  