Merrill Lindenbaum was born and raised in Queens. In this interview, Merrill takes us on a tour all the way from her seventh birthday party at Flushing to her present day life in St. Albans. Merrill is a care-free, open, and a joyful person. Living life and enjoying what you want to enjoy is what Merrill thrives for. She simply didnÕt care for things that donÕt interest her. Even though Merrill wishes she could change a few things in her life if she had the chance to, sheÕs still content with her life. MerrillÕs journey in Queens wasnÕt exactly smooth, but she fought through it.  00:00:40  Merrill went to the [Long Island University] in Brooklyn. The university used to be the old Brooklyn Paramount Movie Theater. She describes he majors of her choice.  00:01:59  She was a history major, but she didnÕt have any use for the college degree she achieved.  00:02:12     MerrillÕs father was an attorney and her mother was his legal secretary. ThatÕs how her parents met and later got married.  00:03:48     She lived in Queens for all her life. MerrillÕs parents had an apartment at [Forest Hills] when she was born. As she grew older, the Lindenbaums bought a house in [Flushing].  00:04:35     In 1950Õs, Merrill recalls having her 7th birthday party at her new Flushing residence.  00:05:16     She recalls her parent buying the house in Flushing around 1958 for $30,000.  0005:26     Merrill describes the time of Vietnam War. She expresses her opinions of the Vietnam War. She painted herself as more of a spectator rather than an active participant at protests. However, she confidently notes that she was against the Vietnam War.  00:08:45  The Hippies Movement in 1960Õs wasnÕt really seen in Queens according to Merrill.   00:09:50  Merrill specifies why she was against the Vietnam War.   00:11:00     Merrill is currently retired but this is because she lost her job at the age of sixty-two. She describes the unfortunate events that followed through.  00:12:24*    Merrill presently resides across the street of Hollis Gardens. SheÕs qualified to live there as a low income senior citizen. She outlines the positives and negatives of living in the Hollis Garden apartment complex. She specified that at one point she was almost homeless, but she doesnÕt have to worry about that anymore.  00:16:15     Merrill illustrates her childhood and her parents. Generosity was a big part of MerrillÕs family.  00:17:12     She recalls a humorous event her father was given a chance to invest in Birdseye frozen food patents. MerrillÕs father said, ÒWhoÕs gonna eat this frozen food?Ó and threw away the multi-millionaire opportunity.   00:23:10     Merrill says that she doesnÕt talk to her relatives anymore. SheÕs content with it. In addition, she also describes her childhood best friend, Theresa. 00:29:10     Merrill never had a love in her life. She expresses that, ÒIt just didnÕt happen.Ó She seems comfortable with the idea of not finding love.  00:31:20     Merrill describes her history of residency in Queens. She doesnÕt quite recall the days past her residency at Hollis Hills. Back when she lived in Hollis Hills, the neighborhood was not yet officially designated. She would put ÒQueens VillageÓ as her zip code for mail, in order to get her mail quicker.  00:33:00*    Merrill indicates that she went to public schools for all her life. First she went to [P.S. 188], and then she went to [Junior High 109], which was called [Queens Village Junior High] at the time she attended. She also attended [Martin Van Buren High School]. She recalls the zoning-laws which forced students to go to a certain school that they didnÕt want to.  00:38:15     Merrill doesnÕt feel lonely because she keeps herself occupied.  She actively looks for new things to do. She does what interests her, if it doesnÕt interest her, she will not do it.  00:46:27     Merrill details the comfortable environment she grew up in. She also talks about her grandparents.  00:51:00     Merrill never had any interest in going to school, however she went because she had no other choice.  00:53:50*    Queens is currently the most ethnically diverse urban area in the world. However, when Merrill was growing up everyone around her neighborhood were White-Americans. Also, she stated that there were very few religions around her area.  00:58:00  Merrill boldly states that sheÕs not xenophobic.   1:00:00     Merrill defines her current neighborhood, [St. Albans]. When Merrill first moved to St. Albans, she wasnÕt used to being around so many African Americans and African immigrants. The amount of diversity shocked her.  1:06:30     She worked for retail most of her life. Merrill goes into great details of her work life. She mentions how or why she got fired from her jobs.  1:16:00     She describes her feelings of having a car before and not having it anymore. She complaints about the transportation system and how it demotivated her to travel.  1:32:48     When Merrill was in college, she first wanted to be an accountant major and then she switched to education major. However, after knowing that she had no interest in those majors, she decided to major in history. She was very interested in history.  1:35:35     Merrill knew what she didnÕt want to do, rather than knowing what to do exactly. She likes to do things at her own pace.  1:38:42*     When Merrill looks at her past, she wishes she took more opportunities. In addition, she wishes she had studied harder and gotten better grades. But, she accepts the fact that she canÕt go back and change things. Merrill is not sure if sheÕll ever find herself, even though sheÕs happy and content. She never tried to find herself, but rather she went with the flow of life. She expresses about her parentsÕ sicknesses and noted how they passed away. Merrill mentioned that before her parents passed away, they werenÕt Òliving,Ó but rather Òexisting.Ó Merrill confidently states that sheÕs definitely Òliving,Ó even though her life is not perfect.  1:45:40     Merrill wanted to marry and have kids, but that never happened. Merrill isnÕt exactly upset about it.   1:49:15     MerrillÕs view on death and how she feels about it. 