My name is Peter Loupakis and for the last thirty years now I have been teaching and instructing karate and gymnastics and acrobatics.  My father [Tony] started teaching us when we were babies; I was one and a half years old.  And my brother [Harry] was three at that time.  And we continued ever since.    I was born in Greece.  We moved here when I was five and he was seven.  By then we had already started doing tours as a group.  WeÕre called the Trio Loupakis. WeÕve been very successful, yes, all these trophies and first place awards.  My father was first a champion wrestler in Greece.  Then he turned that into acrobatics, and from that when we came to the states we opened up a karate school so that we could offer teaching in martial arts and acrobatic gymnastics.   I would say itÕs not so unusual any more [to have a Greek family in martial arts] but yet itÕs an odd combination; and furthermore to have martial arts and the acrobatic gymnastics in one space.  Normally they donÕt work well together.  But they should I think.  They complement each other, you need similar skills.    We teach all ages.   IÕd like to say its fun for anyone.  Anyone can learn it just takes time, the ability is there.  ItÕs a question of taking the course and time to learn to do it.  Some people learn fast and you know they are naturals, some people take longer.  But as long as you keep trying you will get it, thatÕs true.   We are going in November to a regional competition and we came back from Las Vegas in July where we won two first places; one for a karate-based routine/demonstration and one for acrobatic gymnastics.    ItÕs not a question of preference any more, whether I prefer performing or teaching.  ItÕs just what I do.  I perform, I compete, I teach, this is it.    Martial arts fundamentally was for the practice of war.  Over time and the generations weÕve turned it more into a philosophicalÉand now itÕs more of an exercise program, kind of like Thai Bo but a little more into the strict rules of sparing and actual contact with your opponent, not just hitting the air.  You get physical in the martial arts.  ThatÕs the difference from the aerobics, kickboxing, things like that.    With the introduction of what is now the MMA [Mixed Martial Arts].  This is something that my father was doing a long time ago because he used to wrestle.  So learning the karate, just one enhanced the other.  WeÕve fused them all.  I like to say we take the best of each of them because over the course of the years, teachers come to our gym, and they were teachers that were teaching Kung Fu, Shotokan, Goju, different styles of martial arts.  So weÕve gleaned a little bit of the pie from everyone.  We set up here in 1973.  Before it was a dance studio.  We got very lucky.  The space was as-is except we have expanded at the back to have more space.   When we started we were 80% Greek attendees.  Now thatÕs changed and weÕre lucky if weÕre 10% Greek.  And then itÕs just a whole mix of differentÉfor example a Polish couple came in and brought their child.  They go to a Polish school around the area so they then tell all their friends and suddenly we have an influx of Polish people because of that.  And the same with other ethnicities, you know, and they each tell their friends.  The classes are pretty mixed.  WeÕre open to everyone of course.  ItÕs funny how it shifts around.   IÕm not here all day.  ThatÕs one of the beauties of the job.  WeÕre only after school hours.  So that limits the amount of time.  Teaching is a hardÉyou know, especially teaching childrenÉit can be a little bit, how you sayÉtaxing is the word.  But itÕs fun, and itÕs never the same day at the office, ever.  Never the same day.  ThatÕs one plus, keeping it exciting and keeping it fun.   Outside the gym, I work as a physical education teacher as well, in the day time.    And two students who have been with us for over 13 years they started when they were five years old they still come now.  And their children come.  I like to call them grandkids.  I have like 8 or 9 grandkids now that come back.  Students that bring their own children.  I have two daughters.  They are 17 and 15.  And they are not as much into it now as before, itÕs those hard teenage years.  But when they were younger they were in it all the time.  And in fact this Saturday they did a show with us near Madison Square Garden at the Pennsylvania Hotel which was a martial arts exhibition.  We received a high honors award for one of the better demonstrations of the day.  And itÕs going to be in black belt magazine I believe next month.     I donÕt see [challenges with having a family business]ÉWith my father I donÕt know, we kind of adhered in a way that itÕs, I mean I call him Tony I donÕt call him Dad at work, you know, itÕs different.  For some people I donÕt know if they could do it.  I find it very pleasant.  To walk in and say hello to my Dad and kiss him hello every time.   Plus it helps our business because they see that its family owned and that we care and everyoneÕs involved, not just one person sitting behind a desk.    One of the great things about my father is heÕs 77 years old now, but heÕs inside the gym every day, heÕs teaching classes, heÕs not just the one in the office signing people up.  HeÕs actually active and in there, and he was in the demonstration with us on Saturday, heÕs going to be in the demonstration with us next week, Saturday, when we have people in Athens Square.  We go on at 2pm.