Jeremy Magno is a Queens College student who is majoring in Urban Studies. He is Filipino and has grown up in Woodhaven. He went Catholic school until he came to Queens College. He loves Queens College for all the opportunities he has been given there. He also loves Queens for the diversity it has. He does not like the development that is happening in Queens if it means the borough loses its ethnic character. Near the end, he talks about his favorite professor, Tarry Hum, and the classes he has had with her. He mentions the community outreach with the Flushing community he had to do for the class and how much he enjoyed that.  0:00:15 – Jeremy grew up in Woodhaven and has spent all his life there. He went to Holy Child of Jesus Catholic school for elementary school. He went there for 10 years from pre-K to 8th grade.  0:01:30 – His parents are from the Philippines. They came to New York in the 1980s and lived in downtown Brooklyn first. It was crime-ridden then. 0:02:15 – They bought a house in Woodhaven in the early 90s to get out of Brooklyn. In their old home in Brooklyn, they were the victims of theft and damaged property. 0:02:45 – His parents spoke Tagalog to him at home. It was a mix of Tagalog and English. He mainly ate Filipino food at home but they did not have too much variety. 0:03:30 – His mom is a nursing supervisor in two hospitals in Queens. His dad was an engineer for Verizon but after the recession he had to become a construction worker.  0:04:10 – Jeremy went to Archbishop Molloy Catholic High School in Briarwood. He did not do much during high school. He went on a retreat with his high school and keeps in touch with some of his friends from high school 0:05:20 – Queens College was his “out of necessity” option. He liked the campus. The difference between Catholic school and college are the options that are there for him now.  0:06:20 – He got to school mainly by car until Queens College. Now he takes public transit to get to school.  0:06:45 – He likes living in Woodhaven because of the amenities it has. The neighborhood has a lot of parks with fields. He says there is a lot of history in the neighborhood. He spent a lot of his childhood in the parks, biking and exploring the park. Woodhaven was still very white when he was growing up. There were a lot of World War veterans. As time passed, there are more immigrants in Woodhaven now. There is not much Filipino presence in Woodhaven. They were mainly in Jackson Heights/Woodside. 0:09:15 – A lot of his extended family is in Jackson Heights. He goes there for holidays like Easter. For holidays, his family likes to go out to eat. 0:10:15 – According to Jeremy, there’s a lot of “buzz” in Woodhaven now. Jamaica Ave cleaned up. A lot of delis are moving out. His long-time barber raised his prices. Real estate companies are buying homes in the area. Jeremy thinks it’s a sign of gentrification. The J train has been getting small improvements.  0:12:00 – When he got to Queens College, he felt a sense of belonging. He found Urban Studies through his internship experience at the Brooklyn Chamber of Commerce. He had to do social media workshops for small businesses. The receptive business owners were from CUNY.  0:13:00 – According to his parents, Brooklyn used to be a dump. Now, when he goes back, he sees all the office buildings, the high-end retail. He thinks Brooklyn has a lot more going for it.  0:14:10 – He loves Queens College. He likes the history of some of the buildings like the clock tower being named after the QC students killed during the Freedom Ride. Service Corps was his most memorable experience. He talks about the secret spots he found at QC by exploring.  0:16:10 – He likes the diversity and coalescing of cultures in Queens. His favorite food is soup dumplings and he likes the ones that are served in Flushing right by the Sheraton Hotel.  0:17:30 – He wants to stay in Queens because he loves it. But, he is scared of the development happening in his neighborhood and the other ones in the vicinity.  0:19:30 – He does not want to see the luxury condos go up in the rest of Queens like they did in Long Island City.  0:20:20 – He wants to work in the public sector focusing on the development or as an academic.  0:21:30 – Jeremy talks about his favorite Professor, Tarry Hum. He talks about the 3 classes he has had with her. He had a class about Sunset Park and he had to go visit it for an assignment. He liked to do the community outreach aspect of it. For her classes, he has gone to a lot of community meetings and town halls. 0:25:00 – Jeremy talks about the Flushing Town Hall he went to that Councilman Peter Koo attended as well. He talks about how it looked like Koo was dodging questions from the public. Jeremy tries to get what the community feels about the development plans. He had to make a video about how the Flushing community members feel about the development plans.  