Mary Brigid came from Kinvara, County Galway, Ireland, a coastal town.  Her father was a farmer, and her mother stayed home with the children.  Mary Brigid enjoyed school and the open spaces of Ireland.  Mary Brigid first came to America for her sister’s wedding in October, 1971.  At the time, two sisters were living in the Bronx.  One would later move back to Ireland.  Two months after the wedding, Brigid immigrated to the United States and lived with her two sisters, and she enjoyed the busy city.  She later moved to Flushing where she lived and worked until meeting her husband, Tom Maguire.  They married in 1974 and moved to Sunnyside, Queens, where their daughter was born.  Eleven months later, the couple purchased a home in Woodside, Queens, and had two sons.  Brigid has happy memories of the neighborhood.  She enjoyed spending time with their Irish neighbors as their children would play together.    00:00:13 Brigid first visited America in October 1971 for sister’s wedding, came back to stay two months later.    00:00:37 From Kinvara, County Galway, Ireland, near the sea, lived with parents and three siblings.  Walked 1.5 miles to elementary school and rode her bike to secondary school; she enjoyed school and studied English, Irish, Math, and Catechism.  Two sisters moved to the Bronx in 1964.  Father was farmer – cattle and sheep, grew crops and sugar beet, harvested oysters and cut seaweed for iodine, mother was a housewife.    00:02:32 Misses open space of Ireland most.  First impression of America very busy, but likes the hustle-bustle.  She traveled alone on a student passport and stayed with sisters, who worked on Wall Street; the lived in Parkchester in the Bronx.  Experienced heavy storm with thunder and lightning for the first time and nearly hid in the closet.  Worked at a local insurance company and auto school.    00:04:42 She moved with a friend to Flushing, Queens, and lived and worked there until meeting her husband, Tom Maguire.  They met first at Gaelic Park in Bronx and again at a dance in Tower View Ballroom in Woodside on 61st St.  Married at St. Michael’s Church in Flushing on July 6, 1974 and moved to Sunnyside, Queens.  00:06:05 Lived in apartment on 46th St. in Sunnyside on 5th floor.  Liked trees in Sunnyside, and it felt more like Ireland.  Few Irish neighbors in building except for a few older people; she met younger Irish people in church and at dances, and went to Red Mill in the Bronx for dances before meeting husband.    00:07:09 Purchased a house at 65th place in Woodside eleven months after marriage.  They have three children, a girl and 2 boys, oldest is 40.  They have three grandchildren (boys ages 11, 9, and 2).  She traveled back to Ireland every other summer for five weeks with children; her son took first few steps in Ireland.  00:08:22 Overall, Immigrant experience was good.  They settled into New York and Woodside neighborhood.  Stayed home and raised children and enjoyed spending time with other mothers.  Hard to leave Woodside- it is convenient, with good train service into city.  Woodside had many Irish stores, but fewer remain today.  00:09:41 She learned traditional Irish songs and Irish step dancing in local school hall as a child.  The local town had many musicians and entertainers.  She used to sing in the choir, but hasn’t sung in many years.  For husband’s retirement, she sang “Come Back Paddy Reilly”.  00:11:28* She sings “Come Back Paddy Reilly”.  Mother used to sing, but not professionally.  00:13:34 Mother visited three times.  First when daughter was born in Sunnyside and twice after that.   Mother, 5’ tall, visited during a snowstorm and snow piles were just as tall- she didn’t know where it would go.   00:14:21 Mary Brigid is real name.  At the time, mothers didn’t attend Christenings, so her aunt attended Christening.  Mother wanted “Brigid Mary”, but the priest baptized her as Mary Brigid.  There was already a Mary (Catherine) in the family, so she goes by Brigid.  She goes by Mary Brigid officially at work.  00:15:45* She has happy memories of Woodside – enjoyed neighbors and sitting on stoop at night with Irish neighbors.  Their children played together.  She enjoyed kids playing school in backyard.  Many Irish young children in the neighborhood, and she enjoyed time with the mothers.  00:16:40 She would like her grandchildren to know that their grandmother came to America, worked hard, and their grandparents tried to make a good living for their children.   They had mostly good times, and luckily not many bad times.   