I’ve been practicing in Astoria for close to 25 years.  Since I was young – I always admired my pediatrician, both in Greece, and then in Brooklyn, who is still alive today.  He was always telling me how he loved children and I do too.  That gave me the boost to continue my studies and become a pediatrician.  Children get easily sick but they get better fast.  And you see them always energetic, moving around, and full of life.  They make you young.  That’s very inspirational.  In the older population, sometimes when older people get sick and you see them deteriorate and that’s very heartbreaking.  Kids know how to bounce back.  They are very resilient and have a lot of resolve.  That makes them very unique.  To see them well, and grow, and develop, that is very rewarding.  I had prostate cancer.  It was the early stages.  It was a little tough but I had a lot of good people around me – family, friends, and importantly my patients who gave me the inspiration to continue and fight, and I did it and overcame the disease.  I’m cancer-free right now.  That made me realize that life can take a turn for the worse at any time.  So you have to enjoy your family, your friends, as well as the people that love you.  And also appreciate your life and the passions that you have in life.  My family comes first: I have a daughter who is 12 years old.  So I say I have to enjoy every day.  As one coach once said you have to make every day your masterpiece.  That’s my inspiration.   Sometimes I worry about every little thing.  But you have to think positively and have a lot of reinforcement from the people around you, that’s very important.   I started out on 30th Drive near the Greek Church [St Demetrios].  Then we moved to Crescent Street, and then I finally built this new building here on 37th Street, and I want to remain here for quite a few years.  We built it for my practice and I wanted to provide multi-specialty within pediatrics like pulmonology, allergies, and gastroenterology.  I also have a laboratory on the second floor which facilities it when any patients need blood-work, chemistries or other tests to be done in this office instead of going all over the place.   When I started here 25 years ago it was very diverse – it’s getting even more diverse – but I also see a lot of people now from downtown Manhattan moving here because it’s become very expensive.  30th Avenue is becoming very, very chic and unique.  So there’s a lot of effervescence and movement around here.  So it’s a delight to be around here.  It’s full of life.  I speak fluent Greek, conversational Spanish and conversational French.  Parents ask more questions than they used to.  They go through the internet and sometimes they get the wrong information from there unfortunately.  I see a lot of parents worry about vaccinations.  I tell them to go to official websites like the Central Disease Committee and they have all the studies there explaining the side effects of each vaccine.  I enjoy my family and patients.  I love to travel and see different cultures and types of people – how they live and adapt to their environment.  That’s what I would like to do more of in the future.  Now I have some time because I have a good associate who helps me out.  I love nature and I love earth so in the future that’s what I want to do more of.    I’m a sensitive person – maybe that’s a bit of a minus – but I appreciate people and treat them with high respect.  And the thing I most want from people is to say thank you and appreciate me – some people no matter what you do for them you can’t please them and I feel down that I did so much for this patient and then they don’t say thank you.  I don’t demand that much.  But unappreciative people I don’t appreciate!  Appreciation and kindness and so on are very important to me.  Money is secondary and a thank you is worth a million dollars to me.  I feel like my patients are part of my extended family, and that’s how I treat them. I always try to accommodate them.  And if I don’t know something I’ll send them to a specialist to help them out.  And the most important thing is to have compliant people who will work with me – non-compliance issues make the treatment harder, the patient suffers.  The infant or the child cannot tell us what the problem is so if we have poor communication between parent and physician the wellbeing of the child is going to suffer, so that’s why I tell the parents communicate with me and we’ll resolve most of the problems.    When they get older like at four or five years old they can say my ear hurts, my body hurts and so on, you can communicate with them better.  Unfortunately with an infant you can’t do that so most of the information comes from the parent.    