Amna: Okay so this is me starting the recording. it is Saturday May 17 2016. I'm at home. IÕm going to call J Alexander Martin for our second interview. [He did not pick up] He was apparently busy. so I guess we are just going to wait. [J Alexander Martin calls back] J Alexander Martin: This makes me old Amna: Hi J Alexander Martin: Hey whatÕs up? Amna: IÕm good. How are you? J Alexander Martin: I'm alright Amna: Can you hear me? J Alexander Martin: Yeah yeah. IÕm just ailing here. The pills and the medicine and all that stuff. Ow Amna: How are you feeling?! J Alexander Martin: Old. Old to say the least J Alexander Martin: Ok shoot while IÕm not in the pain, well I am in pain but not as much in the pain. If I keep walking I can walk it off. WhatÕs up? Amna: Ok, Do you want to do it some other time when youÕre not in pain? J Alexander Martin: No no, just do it now and get it out of the way. Because you said you had to have it done by Monday. Just go ahead and shoot so you can have it done by Monday. Amna: Ok, I donÕt want you to be in pain though  J Alexander Martin: Nah nah, thatÕs life.  Amna: Ok. Let's start with. I was looking over the recording from the last session and we were talking a lot about black identity, black culture but what was your definition of black identity, black culture or just culture in general? J Alexander Martin:  My definition of black culture in general. Well I thought of it as something like this, like when I was coming up you know as a youth, as a youth just listen to me.... As being young, you don't know what you want to be, you don't know what you want to do, so whatever's popular becomes, whateverÕs popular thatÕs around you like if its music influence, you know, writing influence, what people are wearing, you become a product of your environment. I think that by definition culture is the product of your environment, whatever is around thatÕs popular and present and you just become that. You engulf yourself in that. And actually itÕs like a following something. and when I say following something usually follow what is hot, or what is not, or what everyone is actually doing, and that becomes culture. I haven't In that respect I have engulfed myself in fashion. ItÕs what I felt I was good at. Music of course is always in fashion as well but I wasn't the best rapper or the greatest musician, so I just chose what I like to do. I used to change my clothes a lot. I would want to buy clothes and shoes and look good, look a certain way. When you look a certain way you attract certain things. If it is women, or people looked at you a certain way. And they could tell you had power.  You were in the ÔIn CrowdÕ. That to me is what makes up culture. it could be culture in respect of religion it could be culture in respect to your environment or where you grew up, anything like that. I don't know if I answer the question but I know I sort of tried to  Amna  All I can ask for. You said culture for you was a lot of the environment, what was going around you, and stuff. Do you want to talk about what was going on around that time like not just FUBU but your childhood and everything?  J Alexander Martin When you grow up, who's the most popular kid? And the most popular kid is the person who pretty much had money or how they got their money, or it is really that one Ôin kidÕ. Who is the valedictorian, who is the prettyÕs woman, or the guy that looks the nicest, he becomes the popular guy, and everyone wants to be like them because everybody wants to emulate that. And thatÕs what happens. ThatÕs how culture impacts everything, it impacts style, it impacts trends, it impacts all that. Trends push you or leads you into whatever that is, everybody all of a sudden, the in car when I was growing up was like a Jetta, if you had moderate money, not a whole bunch of money but moderate money. And then Lexus came and then all of a sudden now itÕs the car to have. And everybody wanted to have that car. If it was a style that you wore or jeans or whatever everybody had to have that jean. I grew up wearing timberlands because IÕm from queens. You can identify who a person is or where they are from or what they like or donÕt like based on what they look like.   Amna Do you mind expanding on the fact that you wore Tims because you were in Queens, like did different boroughs have different...  J Alexander Martin Well, like you know what happened, it was funny, you know whoÕs who, who somebody is and where they are from based on how they dressed. Because everybodyÕs dresses a certain way in a certain area  Amna I get what you mean  J Alexander Martin so , so if/ when you walk outside your house and you saw the older kids, and they had on A then u needed to have that somehow, and you did whatever you had to do, work nights, sweep, shovel snow, or work in the summer or whatever so when school came around you had the hottest or most popular clothing. And the people who didnÕt have all that they just werenÕt in the Ôin crowdÕ, they were not the Ôgood guysÕ they wasnÕt hot or they wasnÕt cool I should say. So everybody the whole thing about trying to be cool, trying to be ÔinÕ, and I think thatÕs what everybody grows up trying to be. Until they find themselves and find out who they are and that is just who they are and making their own trend and doing what they want to do and having people go towards them. There are always the nerds, the thug not thug but the ghetto guy or whatever who everybody is like wow, the drug dealers or whoever, and everybody is like Òwow I wanna be just like themÓ and years after that when all those guys are in jail then you like, well IÕm glad I didnÕt want to be like that, I wasnÕt like that because I would be in jail or deadÓ. Because women always want the bad guy, the bad boy rather I should say, and then everybodyÕs wanted that. And if you see that and thatÕs the culture that you live in and you wake up and thatÕs what you see all day that thatÕs what everybody wants and thatÕs what you want to be.  Amna That makes sense. J Alexander Martin Everybody wants to grow up and get the best car, for me it was like the big car and stuff like that, everybody wanted that. I think I answered the question, sorry. Amna Yea, no you make sense, um basically everybody wants to be included, basically. J Alexander Martin Included yea. And that dictates culture I think more so than people even think about it. you know, when you finally start making a bunch of money the first think you do is you go and you purchase something that you may not even really be able to afford, you can sort of afford it. And you gona get it because thatÕs what you always wanted because you are searching for. Something in your past that you couldnÕt be, you know Amna Yea I get you. That makes sense J Alexander Martin Which is a detriment, It could be a detriment, to that person. now everyone nowadays I think people donÕt even really look, we they do but it is not a prevalent as it used to be where people just fall into a trend and follow. Although they follow in a different way, today everyone follows on social media. The whole thing is that I donÕt really notice the same thing about it but if you are driving on the highways and you come to a like a toll, if you notice that everybody goes on the line thatÕs the longest.  And then if you look to the left half the time there is a line that is short but nobody goes to the line because everybody just follows. You notice if you go into a bank or whatever and you walk in and people just go into the line that everybodyÕs on and donÕt look for the line that nobody is on. If you walking down the block, and you look up in the air one day and act like you are looking at something, then all of a sudden somebody goanna come and look and look at something, and you aint lookin at nothing but they are trying to find what you are looking at and after a while you have 15-20 people looking up in the air looking for something that isnÕt there because that is just naturally how people think/act.  There is this whole reality world, a reality star could act in this way that is sort of real but is also acting, everybody looks at this and decides that it is ultimately what they want to do, there is a whole subculture like that, I know some women who quit  their job to go work a dance club or strip club, I donÕt know what they call it now, because these girls all you had to do is kinda walk around with scantly clothes on and all of a sudden they are making 5,000 dollars a night or more, so itÕs like ÒI could just go out in a night and make more money in a day than I make in a monthÓ it becomes a people, who go wow this is it, with social media you can broadcast that out to more people and then become popular. And when you become popular you have hundreds of thousands of people maybe even millions of people who like your pictures or you have like hundreds of thousands of followers and now all of a sudden you go off and now you are wanted to be Òlook I want you to come host this partyÓ, now you are making 5,000 a night at a party, just as a host or just to show up. And then in turn from there it can maybe turn, if you have any kind of personality it might turn you to television, or then you might date this superstar or athlete or whatever and then she makes you even more popular. Back in the day it was like they had PR agents who would turn around and when something goes wrong they would spin it to where itÕs right. But now it doesnÕt matter because why spin it to its right, if they are talking about you, if they arenÕt talking about you than your not hot, if itÕs not popping youÕre not hot, if people stop talking about you then whether it is bad or good it isnÕt helping you. Amna Any publicity is good publicity J Alexander Martin Any publicity is good publicity, which is really in the long run, bad because if things happen so fast, today they on you and tomorrow they off you. People donÕt look at the long haul of it and, if you are known for something right, how can you keep it going forever, if people hate you or your do something thatÕs crazy whatÕs it gonna do for you in the longer room when you have kids or you do this or you do that. Whereas another thing IÕve always looked at, when you see women, when you look at someone that is, and IÕm just talking about women in general at this point, if you look at women 50 years from now and you have grandkids and all that, and you have all these pictures on the internet with you with nothing on looking a little bit this way, and you look 50 years before that you see your grandmother and she looks nice and oh look at my grandmother and 50 years later this generations grandmothers gonna look like half naked or with a thousand tattoos on her. And what is that gonna do for, just because, there is no limit to anything anymore, to what people would do just to be famous. And that becomes the problem when it becomes to culture, when culture has no respect for itself itÕs a detriment to society when they are no rules no regulations no, ok ÒthatÕs bad or thatÕs goodÓ, when everything is no matter what is bad or good, YOLO Òyou only live onceÓ, Òjust do it, just do itÓ yea but if you only live once, why mess it up, you have to have something, some type of guidelines, something you want to do. You know what I mean? Amna Yea that makes sense J Alexander Martin ThatÕs one of the things that really bothers me when I think of culture and think of whatÕs going on today vs. when you used to be able to choose and say that not everything can be good. WhatÕs going to happen if you have a daughter, when your daughter grows up thinking that all of this is ok, and then what their kids do, and what their kids do, and then when you see on Facebook little kids looking exactly like their father with their jeans sagging and all that stuff and they are 10 and theyÕre emulating the boyfriend that cheated on em and donÕt want Ôem anymore, itÕs like Ò what are you doingÓ what happens to the generation to come, thatÕs what you are starting from. ThatÕs a little problematic but it is what it is Amna Yea, um, do you mind if we flip switches and talk about music. Because I remember in the beginning you mentioned about music and culture. So I was wondering what was the role of music in Fubu? J Alexander Martin  What was the role of music in Fubu? Well music, back when we first started when we were doing stuff with music, music and fashion kinda go hand in hand. because the actual musicians like rappers or singer or whatever they, music makes people come together you know, and the music artist becomes popular because their hit records and are really good and everybody wants to wear or look like that particular artist. So what we would so is we would make alliances with that particular artist and make sure they have our clothing and things of that nature. And we would become popular so long as he is popular. See that comes to a detriment too because when nobody likes the artist anymore then nobody likes their clothes especially of that artist was really really big.  Amna Yeah that makes sense. So like what would you do when, if one person was like really high and then ended up falling down what would you, as a Fubu Brand do?  J Alexander Martin What we do is, we would try to have multiple people. And Switch and be able to have different other guys fill in. As one goes down one goes back up. You know Amna Ok, that makes sense. Um yeah another question based off of our last interview. We were talking a lot about roots and stuff. So What? Amna About roots and holding on to your past. So what were your roots as a person? J Alexander Martin (21:43) Well, I mean my roots, its kind of weird with me. With My roots, IÕm adopted so I was raised with a mother and a father, although I was adopted. Um and my roots became their roots. My father he always had a really good job, professional. My mother she was like an entrepreneur and worked much harder then I know. And so my roots were more family oriented. And that is what happened when you from Queens because QueensÕs people had houses and most of them had more tight knit families, because you had a backyard and things like that. So queens was more family oriented then other areas. In which it was problematic because you were in the projects per say or living in really really bad neighborhoods. And the mother you know was never around or the father was never around. I never had that problem. So you know it wasnÕt no absentee this absentee that. You get raised by seeing families. And then when you date people as you get older. When you start looking for people who have the same like minds. When it comes to groups  Amna Ok. Do you want to talk more about like childhood? I didnÕt know that you were adopted. That was, I didnÕt know that. Did you have other adopted siblings or anything? J Alexander Martin (23:08)I had one adopted brother as well and but um he died though. But I was way more in, when I say culture he was in another frame of mind when it comes to culture. Like my brother he was on Broadway. He was a Broadway Dancer. So it and my father and he would always make sure we learned, we did other things besides just you know, that we knew that the world was bigger than our block. You know what I mean. And what happens is when you are stuck in just your surroundings. You canÕt see the other things. You just think that thatÕs it. Like your surroundings are all bad and that is why you think that you have been raised all bad, you know. You donÕt know that there are other things around you. That there is a big world around you. Like we, my father would say hey listen letÕs try his or try that and eat this type of food and this as well. I remember this story where we had a musical label at the time and we were on tour. And at the end of the tour I took the whole bus, we had a bus, to a restaurant that I knew of and I had the chef cook for us. So we pull up there and a couple of guys didnÕt want to get off the bus. Because they didnÕt want to eat there. And IÕm like well why donÕt you want to eat there? Oh I donÕt eat there, thatÕs bougie. Nothing is bougie its food. You donÕt what the food? They were so used to you know, they didnÕt feel comfortable in their environment because from where they came from that was the thing, you were trying to be something other than yourself. ItÕs not a matter of you trying to be something other than yourself, itÕs trying to expand and grow. And know there are other things to go uptown to be able to go downtown and still be the same person. A lot of people they donÕt understand in life that if you go to a wedding, or a certain event of do certain things you dress accordingly, or you act accordingly or whatever. A lot of people they just say forget it they are going to take me for me. And that is not the truth because there are still different thing that happen in different areas. Like if I went to Israel I canÕt IÕm not going to walk in there and talk about what is this, and act a certain way because you act accordingly to what your environment is. A lot of people growing up now a days they donÕt do that. ÒYou are going to take me as I amÓ and thatÕs that. I understand your point but if take me as I am is your personality but other than that you still need to respect, because there is no respect anymore of what that situation is. You know you walk into somebodyÕs house, or you are going to an event or a party or someoneÕs house you bring a gift or a something. A lot of people just come in and whatever. ÒAight, IÕm here, now what?Ó You know there is a lot of manners and a lot of when before your neighbors would used to police you. Now no one polices anybody. You just do what you want to do. And there is no respect for family and respect for life and respect for anything. I mean people just off on their own. And doing what they want to do. But everybody canÕt do what they want to be because there has to be some type of order and there is no order anymore, at least in my book. I think I went off to the left again, and im going to go back to the right ok ( 27:18) Amna Its ok I sort of want to talk more about you parents. Is that ok? J Alexander Martin Yeah thatÕs fine Y Amna ou said that, what did your father do? J Alexander Martin My father worked at a compact called the depository trust company. And he was, he started as a clerk and worked all the way up to being vice president of the company. So he started on the bottom and worked all the way to the top then retired.  Amna Nice J Alexander Martin From that you see what it means to grow and to work hard and to achieve and understand with that in mind to go every day and every day and working that pavement and moving it and seeing value in yourself. Now my mother she pretty much had her own business so that become the entrepreneurial spirit. The go go go go. Now with me being adopted, there is always a problem with anyone that is adopted where you always feel abandonment and you always feel a certain way. You know and stuff like that. And you need real structured family a structured environment to go out there, to sustain life and be able to go on because it is so hard for that person to. When you grow up being adopted you just always feel that you want to be by yourself and stuff because you felt like you were abandoned. So it was great to have 2 people that would love you like, as if they were your own. It keeps you grounded and keep you movin (2913) Amna How old were you when you were adopted? J Alexander Martin I think, when I was finally adopted I must have been around 6, 5 or 6. I was back and forth in the system but I was back and forth with the system and I came back to the with to same family luckily. I didnÕt have to go to different families. Amna Ok cool. Do you have any pictures? Like an old family picture? J Alexander Martin IÕd have to look. I know I have something. You know what you could do though. Can I give you my Instagram? You could just look through it, I have a bunch of old pictures on there. You are going to have to scroll down of course but and then you can copy and take it from there.  Amna Ok  J Alexander Martin Or maybe I can find it for you. It is, my Instagram is AFashionMind. The letter A fashion m-i-n-d.  Amna Ok J Alexander Martin Or even maybe itÕs on Facebook too if you could check that. Facebook, just look under my name J Alexander Martin maybe you could find that Amna Ok J Alexander Martin Either one of those two. And you could just pull whatever you need to pull. Or you could just google it. My name and it will come up. Amna That would work. Thank you. Um yeah. You said your mother was an entrepreneur. What did she do actually? What was her business? (30;52) J Alexander Martin She owned, in all of her time she owned her own secretarial business. Like she would be the back end of someoneÕs business and do all the secretarial work.  Amna Oh ok, cool.  Yeah Amna Um who are your child hood influences or idols? J Alexander Martin You know what I donÕt have that. And that is the weirdest thing. People always you know when they have the speeches and all of that stuff, or my mentor was this. I donÕt have that. I donÕt look for mentors I donÕt do none of that. I just go, go go go go. And that becomes a power that you have when you are adopted because you have a, there is a sense of isolation, so you have to do it or else. And that is just you. You try, you always try to do something. To be honest I think you do that because you want to make that, your mother that gave you up, or your father that gave you up, or both of them that gave you up, notice you. You want to make so much noise, you want to be seen so much that that they have to know you. And you feel either A) they didnÕt make a bad choice or 2) they try to find me. You know.  Amna I get you. That makes sense.  J Alexander Martin And the part of that too is when they donÕt, sometimes they donÕt even look for you. And that becomes the problem. And that becomes kinda hidden and deep down till it keeps you going. Just like there is a saying that says that there are people who go through a whole lot and they are usually the ones that achieve and become millionaires. And all that stuff like that. And that is how everyone looks at achievement, I am not a millionaire but, you know, they do that because their back is against the wall and they really they just keep going because they want to get out of their situation. Whereas if you already have a situation you know you donÕt even go that hard because you just donÕt.  Cuz you pretty much have it already. (33:23) Amna Ok we were talking about how your dad would always go out and try different things and how one of the people that you were on tour with thought it was really weird and really bougie because that is not what they did. Did you have a community of people who  J Alexander Martin He would always say you have to be able to go up town and down town. He wasnÕt raised you know like, I was about to say with a silver spoon, but he was raised a way where he didnÕt have a whole bunch of stuff. He was just a worker. You know he worked and worked and worked. And he tried to keep up, keep a roof over our heads to stay, and you know he always says, when he bought his house it was 200 dollars a month and he made less than that a month. You know. It was hard. But he kept going and kept going and kept going. So  Amna Did he buy the house and work so hard for you? J Alexander Martin No not for me. I mean this is when I was growing up. Back then. And we would go to dinners. He would say listen, we would save up money and go to dinner and go to a Chinese restaurant or we would go to a Vietnamese restaurant, or we would go to a Greek restaurant. We would try caviar and things like that just to know there is things out there, more than just what you see every day. The chicken wings and whatever. You know what I mean. Amna For the experience J Alexander Martin To get you out of the norm. So you could you know. And when I went to the military you know I got to travel and see the world and see different things, and that made me a lot more worldly you know. He always made sure we were worldly. You know. I can go into a place where I can sit with the president of the United States and then I can go up to a place you know even more that. And where people just, like the guy was in jail yesterday, you know what I mean. You have to be able to do that so you can relate to a lot of people. Or to more than just you know. More than just your age group or people. (36:18) Amna That makes sense  J Alexander Martin Its like when we sat there and talked and we were talking about, IÕm going to mess the name up again, what is it called? The thing, the sari, ansairi, what is it called? Amna The hijab? J Alexander Martin Yeah, the thing, the thing you put on your head? What is it called again? Amna Yeah itÕs called a hijab  J Alexander Martin Hijab, right, hijab, right, that. The average person wonÕt know what it is, they will be like ÒWhy is she wearing that?Ó Oh she is Arab. You know what I mean. Just because they donÕt open themselves up to other things. They are just closed minded. And I didnÕt grow up like that, to be closed minded, you know. To know more than just what is put in front of your face.  Amna That was really smart of your parents. To open you up like that J Alexander Martin And that actually helped me because I am more of the creative director when it comes to that road later on when I took over that role in fashion when I stopped having a design, I would be the creative director for a team of designers. And that kept me worldly and open and able to know what is going to happen before it happens. Because it is not just I am looking at the group, or my own niche per say. Urban. I can bring other things to urban that people not even thinking of. And I can create other designs that itÕs like wow, that is different, or that is hot, or that is this. ItÕs not different it is just what you are not used to because you only see what you see because your eyes are closed. We did a line called Crown Holder and the line was based off of medieval times, and I would pick a lot of different periods in time like the 1500s, the 1600, the revolution, you know. And I would take concepts for that and when I did it first people were like wow this is crazy, this is totally different and people would love it.  And because I had vision. It was more than just a pair of jeans, that everyone else wears. Amna ThatÕs really cool.  J Alexander Martin And then you could have conversations with people you normally wouldnÕt have and be able in situations and handle yourself in an appropriate level you know. (3909) Amna Would you mind talking about basically like childhood and stuff? Like how was school for you? J Alexander Martin Um school was different. School wasnÕt the greatest in my book. Because with all that, your parents, trying to be someone, when you didnÕt know who you are. You are searching and running and you are just kind of following um so you know I wound up being friends with my partner now, who is Daymond. I was just pretty much under his shadow and just around. And I dint even know who I was and IÕm just trying to be popular or something. And I never was super popular but I would just be known. You know just because I happened to be around. I didnÕt think. I donÕt think, my child hood to me, a lot of the time I couldnÕt do the things that everyone else could do that were popular because i couldnÕt really go anywhere. I couldnÕt go and hang out all night, I didnÕt have the money to where this type of clothes and that type of clothes, so I was trying to search, I finally found a job and I was able to buy my own stuff. And when I was able to do that I was able to start being a little more somebody, trying to be more of a somebody instead of a nobody.  Um not that my family was super strict it was more of I wasnÕt the greatÕs student and everything was hell bent around doing well in school. And I wasnÕt the greatest student you know. So the only time I got to do anything or really enjoy myself was in school and on the way home from school. When I got in the house it was thatÕs it. I would be to myself a lot when I got home, just sit in a room , reflect and keep thinking what I want to be and what IÕm going to do and where I am going to go. And it is really weird even to this day I am sort of a loner but I am not a loner. I can just kind of sit in the room and just sit there and do nothing and I think that because I didnÕt get to do anything much, which wasnÕt the greatest. I think as soon as you get older and you start to get to do the things that you couldnÕt do, you know what happens with child hood too is that all the things you canÕt do or couldnÕt be or whatever. Here is another way to say it. Life is in stages there is the popular, there is the kid thatÕs this, there is the kid that is that, right. That same person will have all that then, but in their 20s and 30s and 40Õs and stuff like that then they are not that anymore. So you have to pick, which one do you want to be, you want to sacrifice now for later or you wana get it all now. You know like, there is nothing wrong with enjoying yourself, there is nothing wrong with doing certain things but you still have to focus on what you want to do on the longer run. Most of the time when we are kids and we are young and I didnÕt really understand about focusing on the long run, the long hull because you are thinking of, you are just thinking of today. And I think there is a problem in general that everyone needs to learn early of not just thinking of today but also thinking of the future.  Amna Ok so what did you want to do in the future as a kid? J Alexander Martin No I didnÕt even know till late. And then I was like ok I want to be in fashion. And once I really said I want to be in fashion, that is what I want to do, I went for it. Amna Like how old were you? Around when you figures out you want to be in fashion? J Alexander Martin I was in, I had to be 17,18,19,20,21, something like that. Amna Ok so like late teens early 20s J Alexander Martin Late teens , late teens yeah Amna Ok, cool. Like what would you do for fun? What would the other kids do for fun? And what would you do for fun, as a kid? J Alexander Martin Say that again Amna As a kid what would you do for fun vs what would the other people do for fun? Because you said you would stay home by yourself and not really do much J Alexander Martin Well no because e I couldnÕt go anywhere. Half of the time I was on punishment because my grades wasnÕt good or something. Other than that I had 2 sisters and an older brother, and I said he was into dance and theater, and I wasnÕt into dance or theater so, you know. And I had 2 sisters and I wasnÕt about to you know play with my sisters so I just sat in the room.  Amna I had a question about that but I just forgot it soÉ that happens. What was the grade limit hat your parents were like ok you need to have this much grade or like you canÕt go out? J Alexander Martin It was all grades.  Amna Ok  J Alexander Martin Pretty much, because they were really into you have to go to school, you have to have an education, and that led you to be somebody. You have to prepare, you have to study and I was like aait that doesnÕt mater to me  Amna Ok, did you have any favorite TV shows or movies from when you were a kid? J Alexander Martin Um no, you know whatÕs weird is that I didnÕt really, no not really, because a lot of times, I kind of lived in a bubble because i didnÕt know, because i would always sit. And when I was at home by myself, I just wanted to be alone by myself, itÕs not like I would go off and, because i would always want to escape so I was always, my mind is weird because i was always tired, I was just tired. That isnÕt to say I was tired because i was sleepy but I was just tired because I didnÕt what I wanted to do, I didnÕt know, I was in a situation where I wants growing. And I dint know that you were supposed to be growing. All I knew was that I had to get up and go to school and then the only time I was enjoying myself was when I went to school. And then you come home and watch tv, but then my sisters would actually have all the rights to the tv because there were 2 of them against 1. So I had to watch what they wanted to watch so there was never anything where oh god I really want to watch this because even if I wanted to watch it I couldnÕt watch it because it was 2 against 1 Amna Were your sisters older then you or younger? J Alexander Martin One was older and one was younger but the one that was older would just kind of, what she wanted to do everyone had to do. Amna She was the boss  J Alexander Martin Yeah Amna How much older and younger were they? One is like 2 years older and actually hold oh [it went quiet for a bit] Hello, ok yeah J Alexander Martin So one of my sister was 2 years older than you and one is my age\ Amna And your brother? J Alexander Martin My brother was like 5 years older than me. My relationship with him. Like I said he was off doing, he was older so like, Amna He was off doing his own thing.  J Alexander Martin He was into dance, theater, he was in plays, and stuff like that so there was no hey whatÕs up bro, and all of that. Just kind of keep it moving when it came to him.  Amna Did you have no hobbies at all? J Alexander Martin What was that? Amna Like what were your hobbies? J Alexander Martin I mean finally when I got to, I mean I tried to be a rapper like anybody else, and I tried that for a while, I didnÕt rely keep going with that, and that was really it. Other than that I didnÕt really have any hobbies or anything like that. Anything I would try I would stop in 2 seconds you know. It wasnÕt till I got out of my house, go into the military, got out of the military, and started in 20, 21, 22 when I started to have a life you know what I mean. Because before I would try to figure out what to doing. Right. And after that when I supposedly had a life it started becoming a Fubu life. Which was a whole entertainment, you had to become something that you really wasnÕt. And then you were consumed with being a celebrity and all of that stuff. And that becomes a whole nother thing. Running around and  Amna How did that effect you? J Alexander Martin I mean you get caught up. You get caught up and stuff like that. You get up trying to keep up with the JonesÕs and do the certain things, and once you do one thing and all of a sudden you get. ItÕs almost like a women, she puts on a dress with cleavage and something and all the guys are looking at her like wow, wow, wow she is going to make sure every where she goes that she is going to find that dress. She is going to put that on because she likes that you know, you start to like that. And as you grow and start gaining popularity people start acting accordingly and you lose who you are. And with me I probably never figured out who I was. I mean now a days I am starting to figure it out, and it is not till I am in my 40s that I figured out. You know what I mean Amna Yeah everyone tries so hard to get to that level but when you are there itsÕ not all you think it is. ItÕs not all its cut out to be J Alexander Martin Yeah defiantly. It was all great, but then you are just trying to keep up, keep it up and you start wanting things that makes no sense. Like I know a friend of mine, itÕs a women, she is all caught up in what she is doing and then when the film is over and it is back to being regular then she is a whole different person. So when she is going to go and do it she is somebody else. And then itÕs like I need to get this jet. What do you need a jet for? Yeah you fly around here and there but what the hell do you need a jet? You donÕt need a jet unless you have billions of dollars, you know millions of dollars to have your own jet. But why is your goal to have your own jet? Somethings just do not make sense on a level that you are in, or on rather. And when you are in this container everyone is doing as, everyone is trying to one up somebody. You want the biggest house and the biggest this and this car and that car and all you are doing is putting yourself more and more in debt. More and more in, and you are trying to push to get stuff, push to be like people who honestly you shouldnÕt even want to be. You should just want to be happy. I mean what is going to happen if you have none of that, you are not happy. Where is that? But no I need, and I need, like itÕs almost like different worlds on the show and a different world in. There was a character Whitney and this other guy, and I canÕt remember the other guyÕs name. and she is like miss bougie and whatever and he is like the regular guy and they were dating and one of the things, she was stressing like, well what do you want, what do you want. Well what this, this, this this, and this. Well why do you want that? And that guy is rich and guys like that are always rich and itÕs like what happens if you turn around and you freaking lose everything you got. Is the guy supposed to leave you then? Are you going to leave? It just becomes you are chasing money, money, you chase it and you chase it, you chase money, and you chase power and thatÕs all good but then you get it. Now what? People donÕt have an answer for that. And when you donÕt have it nobody cares. So basicly you need to find somebody that loves you for you and after that comes all of       