Salman: Hi this is Salman Alqahtani I am meeting today Anthony Mavilia on October 19, 2018, at the Long Island city art center in his painting studio let's start talking about family.  Anthony Mavilia: My family came to the United States from Italy, my father came to the United States in 1932 but my grandfather proceeded him in I believe 1914 or 1915, my grandfather fought ww1, and went back and forth like many immigrants went back and forth to Italy to United State back and forth finally in 1932 the whole family left Italy, and they all came to the United States, and this is pretty big extended family because my father had 2 sisters and they all have children so too big family that's lived in United States.  Salman: Can you say the date again.  00:30:86 Anthony Mavilia: 1932 my father came to the United States, my grandfather came here I think in 1914 or 1915 and he went back and forth to Italy and Unite State until he finally immigrated here and became a United States citizen the reason I bring that up is because I was born in what's considered the little Italy section of The Bronx there's a section in Brooks was born everybody's Italian everybody speaks Italian restaurants Italian the food is Italian it's Italian ghetto so 1960 we moved to queens that's where I start living in Queens in 1960 when I moved to Queens first I lived in Queen's village Queens's village is was a small section of queens very suburban arena it almost like a little town it was like a small towns little houses small stores.  Salman:  That was your 1st home in queens?  02:44:56 Anthony Mavilia: yeah, that was my1st home in Queens and so I was 8 years old so we lived there until I was 18 so I considered that I grew up in queens village I went to school there I went to the public school I went to Catholic school I went to both types of schools Amm.. it was a nice place to grow up it was very nice there were a lot of kids you now we play a lot of games boys all hung out you know we ride bicycles this very nice kind of childhood, but the neighborhood there is an aspect of races in queens and in Queens village that is important in 19 let's see we left in 1960 AmmÉ 70 by 1970 the neighborhood began to change rational, and the neighborhood began to change black people began to move in, and white people fled  Salman: That was in 19É?  3:49:45 Anthony Mavilia: About 1970 it began mostly 1860 moved in 1970 we left we moved and it the banks were doing a program of breaking the neighborhood up they were giving mortgages only to black people or only to white people in certain areas if they wanted to keep the area white they give the mortgages to white people they wanted to make the area black they give mortgages to the black people and there was a real racial you know tension in the area that was also when the schools will beings integrated and they were putting black-and-white kids in high schools together and it's creating huge amount of problems at the time so in 1970 my parents moved to Bellerose which is another part of queens were very close to national county all white HhhÉ All white ok so  AmmÉ and it's interesting because that neighborhood today in Bellerose is all Indian it's almost everybody in there is India or Pakistani in that section of Bellerose and it was interesting to watch the change in the neighborhood, it didn't create problems but it just was a change, in other words, it didn't create the problems that black-and-white integration provided but it just was a change in the neighborhood the shops then the food store moved from being like American to being Indian and they moved the many the restaurants change from you know whatever like American food hamburgers and stuff like that to being Indian food and the residence in fact when my parents passed away when my father passed away we sold his house and we solid to Indian people so the neighborhood now it has been a lot of changes in terms of the population.  Salman: How was your feeling when did your fist moving?  05:46:42 Anthony Mavilia: Aww... we missed it so bad yeah because the house I grew up in, and it was a big house and moved from a big house to a small house, so I felt like you know all we came down you know cause inside this good Am...  so that was yeah we missed it and also our friends that we had in the area you know we didn't see them that much anymore it was hard to keep in touch so we missed queens village, queens village was a very nice you know Queens village is an old neighborhood and some of the houses where from the turn of this centuryÉ 6:22 there had been farms their some of the houses were in the farm because Queens village you know all of Queens was farming was all farming.  Salman: was it in 1970?  06:37:05 Anthony Mavilia: No no no in the late 1900s and only 1900s and the reason I bring it up is our neighbors their house was the original farm house that and they have owned all the land since the late 1900s their family owned the land and then farming just they stopped farming and sold the land and as they sold the land houses were built on it and street were put in and it became a different kind of neighborhood there where as Bellerose was all planed in other words we moved to Bellerose all the houses were the same everywhere all the houses were the exact same house every single house was the same but in Queens village every house was different because they all built at different times and it was also more economy integrated neighborhood because in Queens village they were very big houses that wealthy people lived in and then right up the street there will be very small house that not so wealthy people had a mix people with different economic groups but in Bellerose all were the same, and all the people were the same more or less made the same amount of money they all more or less had the same kind of careers it was all very  you know very similar so the was big different between queens' village and Bellerose so AmmÉ and I liked Queens' village.  Salman: Alright.  08:15  Anthony Mavilia: So professionally I became a teacher, and I taught children with emotional and learning problems, and I was a teacher at the Norman Tomas high school in Manhattan even though I probably have lived In queens and I taught in Manhattan, and I taught that school for 32 years Amm and good career I enjoyed it I like this teaching AmmÉ and I left when they close the school you know New Your city has a policy of breaking up big high schools New York city has a lot of very large high schools with 1000, 2000 students and a power school was really big school, and it was broken up in 2010 0r 11.  Salman: That was elementary school?  09:15  Anthony Mavilia: No, it was a high school, so I taught high school, I taught art I taught computer graphix, and I also taught history also my subject that I taught. The New York high schools have been separating the big schools into small specialized schools so that what happened so when that happened I just retired I have been teaching for 32 years, so I retired, and I have been to the studio and painting expiating and that's I do.  Salman: So, you feel comfortable when you paint.  09:55  Anthony Mavilia: Aw yeah, you know I joined this studio in 1991 and I was a member and in 2007 I think in 2007 up until from 1967 to 2007 this a group studio on 14th street and in Manhattan and we were in a small Bronx town and it was at that time grand village was the center of the art world for New York City there were artists in our building there artist everywhere by the time we left rent became so high that could not afford it to stay on 14 Street so in 14 Street our rent went up to 4600$ per month for a housing space ok so couldn't afford to be there I will talk more about what we are so 2007 we began to look for new studio, and the old director was ready to leave she was getting older, so I volunteered to step in and help find a space and we came to so this building this building now is full of artist it's like what's 14 Street used to be so you know there are artist set all over this building and.  Salman: Yeah, I see.  11:24  Anthony Mavilia: Yeah, if you look, it's hard to see it because they all have their doors closed you do not see it but every year they have all open studios every year in May all the artist in the area open their studios to public, so anybody can walk in and look and talk   Salman: Everybody every in May?  11:45  Anthony Mavilia: In May yeah one weekend in May Saturday and Monday when they open up their the studio there are maybe 15 or 20 buildings in here that are full of artist this an artist neighborhood their just tons of artist Hhhhh here so trying tell you what I need to tell you about us we become a queens' group better way we used to in Manhattan based group and initially when I started I think I was the only person from Queens who came into Manhattan to use the studio now the studio was in Queens I think we only have 3 maybe 4 3 or 4 come from Manhattan to come to Queens because you know people from Manhattan hate coming to Queens they don't like it it's like it's crazy you probably know cause people from Manhattan Aw you came from New Jersey Aw my Gad , so we are growing you know this group we finally reached 10 it took us a while to get to 10 people and we have artist who are traditional realist we have artist who are conceptual artist we have artist who are apstract so we have like wide variety artists in the studio and the reason I bring it up is we receive money from the community trust to keep the studio going and we have a man-day to help develop artist in other words to help artist to develop their themselves artist that what we do and that's why we are a group a specific group and the reason we call the appended square painters is that started in Grantage village in apping in square so where ever we've moved we 've always kept the same name so that's why we have that name it's not a person it was a place.  Salman: Do you remember the date?  14:04  Anthony Mavilia: 1947 and in 196? I do not  know I was little kid we cooperated we became we are actually at painting square painters  INC cooperated and we are in profit we raise you know we raise funds we do funding you know we do outreach to get money for the group and for the studio and we kind of unique there not that many groups like do that artist who get selected to use studio they pay very little it's very unexpansive because studio spaces expansive artist pay a hundred fifty dollars a month to use the space, so we are very inexpensive.   Salman: what kind of pant do you do?  15:25  Anthony Mavilia: I use natural elements like tree and rocks, but I try to create a now a land scape a new idea something that is different from Just a land scape. Ohh Vitoria she is another member hey how are doing I am being interviewed this gentleman is interviewing me this is Salman Vitoria Salman Salman Vitoria, he asked the question that I hate to describe your art what you do you know I hate that yeah he is art he is art ok remember when I said we have conceptual Vitoria is like a conceptual artist.   16:20  Victoria: he just makes you it's not everybody I mean who makes art that has to start from a consult and that you develop, I am a mix of media he uses photography   16:37  Anthony Mavilia: I just yeah and I am a just straight painter.  16:42  Victoria: He starts from the journey which makes a difference.  Salman: thank you for your cooptation.   17:12  Anthony Mavilia: you I have had hoped that when you interview me that I would get many of our artist to be interviewed at the same time but that's ok.  Salman: In the time you were in school, did you enjoy school?  17:28  Anthony Mavilia: Oh god, I hated my high school it was a Catholic high school it was run by brothers, brothers who very strict the brothers were evil.  Salman: Can you get closer.  17:52  Anthony Mavilia: I will say this I got a good education, but it just not a good place to go to school.  Salman: ok  18:03  Anthony Mavilia: You know kids fought with each other a lot it was all boys the boys were always fighting with each other the bully each other a lot the brothers were into like a competition between the students.   Salman: all these situations happen in different schools.  18:20  Anthony Mavilia: yeah I guess, so that's true that's true, Yeah I know I was not unique.  Salman: Are you still friend with the old friend?  18:34  Anthony Mavilia: only one person from high school only one person that I still know that's it and fact I only became friend with him in college we met when we started talking we found out that we came from the same high school, but I did not know him because he is younger than me, so I did not know him.   Salman: let's talk about Queens, your memories in Queens in general?  19:04  Anthony Mavilia: ok, I was wished I lived in Manhattan Hhhhh. Ok, so I am not like huge of Queen's punster, but queens is a good affordable place for the middle-class person to live.   Salman: ok good.  19:29  Anthony Mavilia: in other words, there is a variety of houses, there is a variety of living situations. One thing that I have learned over time that I did not know that there are a lot of cultural opportunities, in other words, if you wanna go to was Indian restaurant, you go the (wichmenhelps), if you wanna go to Greek restaurant, you going to go to (Historian). If you wanna go to A liklakn resultant, you gotta go to Corona, so that there is a lot of different you know ethnic groups in Queen's which you do not see in only Manhattan, so that's one thing it's an advantage a good thing about queens. Queens is developing a lot now, in fact it's over developing in my opinion if you work in around this street here every single street there is construction going on and but their not bringing Subways they are not bringing restaurants they are not I don't see a lot of stores opening so you have 100 of businesses 1000s of people coming in and there is no infrastructure for them there is nothing for them to how they didn't serve these people, so I do not really understand, I seems to me that there is a that they developing it, and they are not looking after the people who are coming here live now, and I see that in to Gardens when I was living in to Kew gardens. Kew gardens forest hills in Kew gardens are historical neighborhood in forest Gardens you are not allowed to paint your home any colour you want, you must keep the structure of the house it's historical are Kew gardens has a similar history that was not protected and people now destroying all the houses.  Salman: What date was that?  21:32  Anthony Mavilia: Forest Gardens just celebrated its 100th anniversary, so 1918 or between 1912 and 1918. Forest hills gardens were planned, and creative and forest hills gardens is a unique community it something that called a the what they called it (Gardens City Movement) there is a movement in the United States to incorporate trees gardens natural elements in the landscape so that if go to part of Manhattan building building building building concrete no trees no parks just straight. The Kew gardens city movement was designed to create a more natural and healthier a living situation for the people so if you go forest gardens you the streets occurred there is a variety of houses they have gardens in front trees on streets it looks like an English village that how it's designed and it does I mean there are churches from middle ages, and it's very pretty Kew gardens which tight next to it took some of the same ideas, but it was never as well planned as forest hill gardens,  so now people are moving I Kew gardens and just destroying their houses they are look for 2 reasons the houses were small they knocking them down and make a huge houses, what they putting up multi like small apartment buildings like 7 or 6 stores of apartment buildings so for example, in my neighborhood 116 St two beautiful houses were torn down, and huge ugly high rises were put in place, so we are missing all of Queens now this offer development. They are destroying history, and they are creating a design that the part of it when I am getting subway when I am getting the buses when I am getting any of the infrastructures.  Salman: You mentioned that some people are not allowed to paint their houses, what was the reason?   23:57  Anthony Mavilia: you have to use certain colors in other words in the historical neighborhood they control of it they have they have determined what the historical color are. For those homes and you only allowed to use them I don't know what the penalty is but most people understand that if they maintain the historical Integrity of the house that the value of the house would be maintained worth money you know. If you take your house and you painted pink no one is going to buy it you know what I mean. You know another word it's understood that Play historical nature of that community draws people to buy it. In fact, I live in that cooperative develop development they are floor buildings where I live right now, and our building was being built in 1937, so it's pretty old for New York, Queens, in style is it called Reggiean style Which is an English Style. We have done a restoration all of the buildings taken into history and other words to make historical registration to make it look the exact way the first time opened. You know we proud of that.   Salman:  so how many times did you make a move with your family?   25:55  Anthony Mavilia: with my family from the Bronx to Queen, so I was born in 1952  in 60 we moved to Queens and Queens Village then 10 years later in 1970 we move to Bellerose and then in  1984  I'm on my own to Forest Hills.   Salman: Do you have siblings   26:39  Anthony Mavilia: I have one brother, and he lives in New Mexico   Salman: so, he didn't love you do in Queens?   26:46  Anthony Mavilia: he did initially.   Salman: So, when you move alone he moved alone?   26:51  Anthony Mavilia: I think around the same time, he moved to Ramon he hates you, New York, hahaha. He first moved Roman and move to New Mexico.   Salman:  okay, I sometimes hate New York It's crowded and noisy.   27:17  Anthony Mavilia: yeah yeah yeah, heÕs interesting,  he lives off the Grid, in other words, he gets his water from the well he gets his electricity from solar panels  he's not connected to you know to the network at all yeah.   Salman: Tell me about happiest moment in your life.   27:48  Anthony Mavilia:  oh my God that's so personal, can you pass on that.   Salman:  yeah, it's fine.  Salman: who was the important person in your life?   28:18  Anthony Mavilia:   I think everybody's mother is the most important person in your life.  let's say that okay.  Salman: No adopt  Salman: Also, important lessons that you have learned in your life?   28:45  Anthony Mavilia:  put things in perspective other words and what's important and what's not important.  And go along with it. You know it's not important to get upset about it don't get anxious about it don't get crazy about it it's important then try to deal with it, so maybe that's   Salman: Good advice.   Salman: we talked about your high school what would you your classmate remember you like a nickname?   29:20  Anthony Mavilia:  oh my God I don't think they would. Oh, I was called a Rembrandt.   I have written articles for the school newspaper for the school's magazine, and I wrote articles about artists and they think that was funny cuz my school was not about art at all at all my school was about sports my school was the basketball was the main thing in that's school. Meat being interesting in the art to make me feel weird.  In running and baskrtball that was my high school. So being an artist, I was a weird kid.   Salman:  when did you start with art?   30:17  Anthony Mavilia:   always when I was a little kid always.   Salman:  if you could do anything you know what would you do and why?   30:35  Anthony Mavilia:  oh man, I think I'm doing what I want what I want to do.  I guess I would exhibit my pants more that's the main thing that I want to do to exit my painting. I'm trying I'm looking at it and going to Venice in Italy and paint and Italy in Venice have you been to Venice.  Salman:  I have heard a lot about it.  31:15  Anthony Mavilia:  it's very beautiful that's very beautiful IÕm planning to go there and exhibits there.  Yeah.  Salman: Did you serve in the in the military?  31:34  Anthony Mavilia:  no, I was lucky I was very lucky in the last year I think the last year the draft the war in Vietnam men with drafted going to the Army I'm buying 1972 or 73 the world was wide in down, so they still do the draft I got a very high number, so they didn't get to my number, so I was very lucky.  I was super worried about that.  Salman:  so, let's go back to the history of life and the bad and Good Times. It's a start with the good first.  32:29  Anthony Mavilia:  actually, I'm I feel like I am a lucky person. I have not had a bad time.  I you know not the wood. You know and Tim's of the most recently the hurricane what was that hurricane the one that did so much damage in Queens.  Jon can you help me out what was that hurricane did so much damage in Queens, Sandy, Sandy. It passed where I lived it didn't hit us. It hit the park around where I live in is in the middle of first Park  so the house is completely in the corner of this huge Park not down and all the park, so we were protected,  you know so many places in Queens were hurt very very very badly flooding trees down electricity what I left just like nothing happened so I guess I live in ok life . I try to think about a natural disasters  you know you know the 9/11  you know construction of the World Trade Center  in that time I lived in Queens, but I also own an apartment in Manhattan, and the apartment was in 28th Street, so I used to see the World Trade Center from my window  and when it's destroyed  you know saddest thing I remember  was the Armory of V Street between its place called an Armory. When the town came down, People thought that many people were missing. And people put up photographs of missing people of the people they thought they are missing. That the saddest thing when I see all of these photographs. It still makes me you know people,  I you know very hard to talk about it,  and you know living in Queens  days after the event, I remember being in the restaurant with friends,  and people were still tens we were in the restaurant and the waiter dropped a hole plate by accident  and people the whole restaurant huuuuuu ,  and you can tell that people still tense  people realized and continued talking with each other it was interesting how that,  the  you know It took months to get rid of the smoke  you know the smoke,  and  smoke with shift you know come to the  winds when the wind. And I couldn't use the apartment, and I have to go back to Queens, so I couldn't stay in that apartment because it was we didn't know it was cancer also smelled horrible.  Salman:  so, the smell and Ash did it reach to Queens?  36:44  Anthony Mavilia: it reached Brooklyn but I didn't know if it's rich I mean I didn't experience it in Queens and smelled it in Queens. But definitely reached to Brooklyn.  So I don't think it's reached to Queens. So that I probably say the most event that I remember my life in terms of long-term  you know what's the war in Vietnam  when the American soldiers fighting with Vietnam and that when you reached 18 or 19  and  divorce still going on you could be drafted and so there were a lot of people who thought in my age thought okay I have to go to Canada you know what I mean, or I'm going to go to get out of this country And get out of United States I don't know anybody left the United States.  Salman:  did you know somebody go to the war?   38:05  Anthony Mavilia:  that's interesting none of my friends got drafted. A friend that I became friends with recently last year, he was drafted to the Army it was interesting but because he knows about music and producing they didn't send them to Vietnam and he did music production for the Army to put on shows for the soldiers. He stayed in New York area in the South I think, and he put on shows. And another friend of mine was drafted, and because had taken, you know people who, when he was drafted to the army because he had that skill instead of sending him to Vietnam to work doing the drafting.   Salman:  tell me about 2008 when the financial disaster?   40:04  Anthony Mavilia: A didn't affect me very much,  I was very lucky,  because I worked for New York City and I thought high school for New York New York City tell if I had to me there some of my stocks and West value I have money on stock market and the stocks lost value  because I didn't sell them,  in 2008 did not affect me and I think it was because of my age and I was in my career,  if I am younger or walking in a company I think I would be affected. 2008 created the situation that we are living now today when you know where the president like Trump you know somebody like that I don't want to get started.   Salman: so, let's get back to where we lived before?    41:28  Anthony Mavilia: So I can talk about Kew  Gardens I am pretty active and Kew Gardens and in two ways one is that I hoped to women in Kew Gardens we have a pottery store it's a woman who teaches people how to make a pottery you know how to used the well and to throw the pat and she has a school to do that and I coordinated with her and another person to make an art Fair  called to (Kew Gardens community Art Fair)  and we look for artists in the area who they have to come from Queens artist from Queens that was October 1st this year 2018 we had 37 artist and not only artist but also cross people who do jewelry who make pottery  also after and also musicians and activities for kids  like for kids to draw and paint and recovered about 10 blocks 10 city blocks you know people  want to participate. So that's a pretty a big event cuz Kew Gardens is a small neighborhood so that was a big event and I was part of. And that started because where I live there are four buildings and complex and we have a big Garden in between 4 buildings so one year you know  I told you we couldn't run the studio to bring art to the public so let me bring us to where I live that will be easy so there are people in my complex they are artists There are women who blows glass there are many people who make pottery  there are people who draw pictures and people who take photographs in my neighbors so we make like a little art fair in the area and people sold to each other and it was nice, and it helped to bring the community together somebody feel like you know we know our neighbors, so I was part of that.   Salman:  how do you see the art industry developments from the old days and now?   44:18  Anthony Mavilia: Okay it is become much more intense right now the art it's bigger there are more artists than there have been in all town and Technology people use computers, people, using computer design people using new technology to create artworks, so you know people using video people using multimedia to create artworks different media, so the art word which had been It is the artwork which has been you know on campus now-now using computers using Sounds new materials you know it is developed   Salman:  what artist use used it to use tools or something old in the old days?   45:19  Anthony Mavilia:  I mean I just use pretty much the same tools for hundreds and hundreds and hundreds of years brushes canvas wood, but it's the way that they use them that's different each year of Art an image that they make are different offer each year and trying to think if you look over they see that paint over there that's behind. do you see the face that guy, okay you can look at that that's very realistic versus now she's developing that image right now but in the past was more about representing reality so when I look at you and your picture now artist more about what's going on in my head probably because you know phone is if I want to picture you the phone is going to do it better job than me you know what I mean So now if I like to paint if I want to paint can I what can I do as a painter how can I express ideas you know the ideas art is communication the imagery in other words, so painting is communication via Colors by texture all that kind of stuff when I communicate with you I will have to be realistic in other words to the camera or make it realistic very well   Salman: you are right.   47:18  Anthony Mavilia:  now what other things can I do to communicate ideas so that's where artist I think more today than it was in the past, in the past artists where a lot of artists still are very proud of the fact that they can portray this cop beautifully I'm going to paint that cup perfect okay,  other artists say that let's take a picture.   Salman:  what other things that you missed from the Arts tools from the old days?   47:51  Anthony Mavilia: I just know I did not miss it anything of them.  Each period In history create art that Fills the needs of the people who left that so in the 17th century Feeble  wanted it very realistic in other words they wanted that called a bowl Graves they wanted butterfly very perfectly because they had no cameras,  but in the 20 Century or 19th century when camera was invented The question for artist became the camera does a better  job than me,  so now what is the artist going to do so then the Artist said well   the way it feels to be alive so I am gonna get the feeling of this feeling.   Salman:  that's it thanks you for your time.   48:50  Anthony Mavilia: thank you for coming.  