Monsignor John A. McGuirl was born and raised in Forest Hills, Queens. A lifelong resident of New York City, Msgr. McGuirl discusses his childhood, the changes in the neighborhood over the past sixty years, and his decision to enter the ministry. He mentions the changes in the Catholic Church both generally and specific to his parish and explains the creation of the parish for Our Lady of Mercy in Forest Hills. He also recounts the last train ride on the Rockaway Beach Branch of the Long Island Railroad and talks about the options for the former rail line. Timecode Outline[00:00:00]  Introduction of interviewer and interviewee.  [00:00:38]  Msgr. McGuirl's personal background; includes birthdate, family background.  [00:01:25]   More personal background; includes when/where Msgr. McGuirl worked.  [00:04:28]*  History of Our Lady of Mercy and its change from a Òchapel of easeÓ for the parishoners  of Our Lady Queen of Martyrs.  [00:06:06]  Family history in relation to Our Lady Queen of Martyrs and Our Lady of Mercy.  [00:06:55]  Demographic makeup of the parish.  [00:09:46]  Parish borders.  [00:12:26]*  Changes in attitudes toward parish borders as a result of cultural and demographic changes in the Church.  [00:14:12]  Early attempts to build a school at Our Lady of Mercy; involvement of Msgr. McGuirl's family in this push.  [00:16:44]*  Msgr. McGuirl's experience moving from public school (P.S. 144) to private Catholic school (Our Lady Queen of Martyrs).  [00:18:28]*  Interview for enrollment at Our Lady Queen of Martyrs.  [00:20:27]   Graduation and enrollment in seminary.  [00:21:24]   Growing up in Forest Hills.  [00:23:17]   Social stratification in Forest Hills during the 1950s and 1960s.  [00:26:48]  Long Island Railroad and the Rockaway Beach Branch.  [00:29:02]*  The last train ride on the Rockaway Beach Branch.  [00:32:33]  The need for public transportation in Eastern Queens.  [00:34:12]*  More description of the last ride on the Rockaway Beach Branch.  [00:37:54]  Short-sightedness of the shutdown of the Rockaway Beach Branch by the LIRR.  [00:40:10]  Difference of opinions on what to do with the former rail line and how best to utilize the land.  [00:43:06]*  Childhood memory of when the trains were still running; being warned not to get close to the tracks; childhood adventures.  [00:44:02]  ÒThe City moves slowlyÓ; divisive opinions with good points on both sides.  [00:45:46]  Decision to become a priest; explanation of influences on that decision.  [00:51:51]*  Influences within the Church on becoming a priest.  [00:53:43]  The difficulty of being a priest in present-day.  [00:56:46]  Changes in the Catholic ministry and community.  [00:58:48]*  Great personal satisfaction in the ministry.  [01:00:00]  Concern about continuing changes in the Church, the decline of the Catholic societies.  [01:02:00]  End of interview.  Interview[00:00:06]  AB  Okay, so this is Abby Banks, and I'm here with - is it Father McGuirl?   MM  Monsignor McGuirl, actually.   AB  Monsignor McGuirl.   MM  Right.   AB  And we're gonna talk about Forest Hills and the QueensWay Project, and hopefully about your life. [cough] Sorry. Um, So have you lived in Forest Hills your entire life?  [00:00:38]  MM  I was born and raised three blocks from where we're sitting. I was born November 19, 1945, and of course, like most people, in a hospital. St. Claire's Hospital in Manhattan, which no longer exists but my mom and dad lived here in Forest Hills on Manse Street. And my grandparents had bought the house we were living in 1925 when this area was just turning from farm land into housing projects. Um, so it kind of came as a surprise when our Bishop, Bishop DiMarzio asked me to come back here. I never expected I'd be back in Forest Hills after ordination -- I've been ordained 42 years. But I was raised here, in this parish, was baptized here in Our Lady of Mercy, received first communion here, said my first Mass here, so my roots are in Forest Hills, yeah.  [00:01:25]   AB  So, um, as far as -- you said that you came back here, but--   MM  Well after ordination, I was assigned -- spent a good number of my life, uh, this is the Brooklyn Diocese here, and that means Brooklyn and Queens County, if  you were a Diocesan priest, you would not be -- you would be ordained for that particular area. My first assignment was in Jackson Heights, Blessed Sacrament Church, uh, and I was there for six years. And then much to my surprise, the Bishop at that time, Francis Mugavero, asked me to be Vocation Director and that means the one who goes out and beats drum for-- to raise consciousness about vocations to both priesthood and religious life, and I did that for five years.      Then I was administrator of Most Holy Trinity Parish in Brooklyn, the Williamsburg section, for a year and a half, I was a transitional pastor. The Franciscan friars were going to take the church over but they needed somebody between to kind of modulate the change. And while living in Brooklyn before getting to -- I lived at St. Vincent DePaul's Parish, which no longer exists unfortunately -- it was the parish my father was actually baptized in in 1903, before they came out here. And um when I left Holy Trinity, I was in St. Mel's Parish in Flushing for about 11 years, then St. Joan of Arc in Jackson Heights for another twelve, and then back here. [chuckles]  [00:02:57]   AB  So, you've stayed in New York City the whole time--?   MM  I have virtually -- not only in New York City, except for those six years living in Brooklyn in St. Vincent DePaul's, and the year and half at Most Holy Trinity, I have been assigned in Queens County. Now I had nothing to do with that, that was whatever the authorities, whatever reasons they had for keeping me in Queens. Even the section of Brooklyn that I lived in, which was the area that my father came from, is so close to Queens they're like the communities just beyond the border. For instance, when I was living at St. Vincent's, I almost considered myself living in Queens, in Western Queens, because the area would be very much like Long Island City is now.  [00:03:41]        I've never really gotten -- some parts of Brooklyn are kind of like foreign territory to me, I really don't know much about them. Northern end of Brooklyn, yes -- Bed-Stuy, Crown Heights, Prospect Heights, Williamsburg, Greenpoint, but lower than that, we start to enter into different territory. Years back, you weren't necessarily -- when there were more priests, the vocation rate was higher, the chances of you returning to the parish you were raised in were very remote, so that's what I meant when I was kind of surprised to be sent back here. I believe I'm the sixth pastor of this parish, actually.   AB  So can you tell me a little bit about the history of Our Lady of Mercy?  [00:04:28]   MM  Yes. This parish was founded in 1930 as a free-standing parish of its own. Before that for several years, it had been a chapel of ease for the mother parish of the area, which is Our Lady Queen of Martyrs on Ascan Ave and Queens Boulevard. It was the first church -- Catholic Church -- in Forest Hills. When the population began to boom, I believe Queen of Martyrs was founded around 1917, and at that time, really, the only thing out here was some Cord-Meyer houses on the Northside of Queens Blvd. and Forest Hills Gardens, which was in development at that point. When this area down here started to boom, in the early - early to mid-1920s, which was when my own house was built -- [coughs] excuse me --  there was seen the need for another chapel, so what would happen. The chapel was at the end of this block, where there's a private home now, and a priest would come down on Sundays from Our Lady Queen of Martyrs to say Mass there so people down this way did not have to trudge all the way up to Queen of Martyrs. When things even got more crowded, when the chapel was no longer large enough to accommodate people, um, the movie theater -- now known as the Cinemart, but when I was growing up, called the Inwood, still there, but now it's broken up into many smaller, as many of them are, smaller theaters, um, they used that also for Mass on Sunday occasionally. So in 1930, it was created as its own parish.  [00:06:06]         My grandparents and father's family had been here since before it was a parish, so really originally they were parishioners of Our Lady Queen of Martyrs, where I went to grade school actually, after two years at PS 144, next block. There was no school here then. The first pastor was Father Edward Costello. He built the church and this building, the rectory. He never really lived in the rectory though.  He died before its completion. And then he was followed by Father Christopher Molloy, who was the pastor when I was a boy. He in turn was followed by Father -- Monsignor Matthew Hickey, who built the school, and then Father Jack Johnston, Monsignor Jack Johnston1, Monsignor Gerald Langelier , and then you-know-who. [laughs]  [00:06:55]         So the parish has been -- it's not as large as Queen of Martyrs, because we don't have all those apartment houses. If you would take something like Parker's Towers on Yellowstone Blvd, if that were filled with Catholics -- it's not, but if it were --  that would be as large as this whole parish, probably, because it's such a large, those buildings are so large. This parish pretty much consists of private dwellings, some of them two-families, but most of them single. There are a few small apartment houses not too many. And the population when I was growing up was predominantly German, of German ancestry, people who had moved out from areas to our west, from Ridgewood and Glendale, Bushwick, um, and settled here in the country. And our name, McGuirl, was an exception on our block. Names like Kaiser, and Schmidt and Witt, and Mueller, and you know, Schreiner, and names like that were the most common.      In the late 1950s into the early 60s, the neighborhood saw a bit of a demographic shift as many Italo-Americans began to move from those same areas, Bushwick and Ridgewood, out this way also. I would say right now, in this parish, Italian last names would be dominant but no longer the majority, because to the general mix has been added a good number of Filipino families, other Asian families, some Hispanic families, even some newer Irish families, and others and Polish families. So it's become a real mix, much more than it was when I was growing up, where it was almost entirely people of European background, and it's not any more. But I do think that makes it better actually, it's a little bit more diverse.  [00:08:52]          The parish has the usual array of activities, you know in terms of we try to keep a community. I am a firm believer that you don't have parish unless you  1 Msgr. Jack Jonhston and Father Jack Johnston are the same person but he received the honorific "Monsignor" later in his life. ÒJohnÓ was his formal first name though he was often known by the nickname "Jack."    AB  Oh no no, it's fine. Can you tell me, like, what the borders actually are for the parishes?   [00:09:46]  MM  Yes, I'll tell you what they are, but they don't count any more.     AB  Okay.     MM  Technically, are you familiar with the street grid here?     AB  A little bit.     MM  Alright, the streets on this side of Queens Blvd., and once on the other side also, but we've maintained the named streets on this side, the others on the other side for whatever reasons became numbered streets. They begin with Austin, Burns, Clyde, Dartmouth, Exeter, Fleet, uh, Groton, Ingram, Harrow, uh, and those streets -- from Groton Street to actually Myrtle Avenue, but the other end of the parish contains Forest Park. So I probably have more raccoons, wild animals, horses because there's several riding academies down here, so that area doesn't really count in a sense. So really, it's from Woodhaven [Boulevard], from Union Turnpike in the south, to Groton Street in the north, and then it's a jagged line, it's hard to say, but sort of generally, Alderton street, over to west, to again Union Turnpike which kind of sweeps around the parish. However, as has become common in very very many Catholic communities throughout the country, people go where they want to go. They either like liturgy, or they like the music or the personalities of the priests or deacons involved, or there's a school and their parish doesn't have -- a whole array of means.       While the formal boundary to the north is Groton, but we have a good number of people coming from streets that would probably be Our Lady Queen of Martyrs and in turn, they may have people from down here that go there regularly. So there's a real interchange between the two parishes actually, so, uh, because I'll hear from people when we have devotions in honor of the Blessed Mother after the 9:00. After the 8:30 this morning, excuse me, two people present were talking about getting new booklets and they go to Queen of Martyrs sometimes, and they come here, and that's very very common, so you know. So the boundaries are those, but they don't mean all that much anymore. We have people coming as far as from Jewel Avenue and 164th Street in Flushing, so I mean there's, that's quite a distance from here actually. You know, and their reasons for coming sometimes could be something as simple as their children are  enrolled in school here, and um, grandma lives two blocks away and she watches them after school, you know, so it could be something like that, it could be something that easy.  [00:12:26]         When I was growing up, though, Groton Street was like the Berlin Wall, I mean you just didn't, you know. Well, I did go to school in Queen of Martyrs, but um, you know, it was much more divided than it is now, and a lot of that has, well maybe thankfully disappeared.     AB  Is that something that happened because of Vatican II, or is that just a change that's happened over time?   [00:12:49]  MM  I think Vatican II had some greater degree of openness to the world, and I think that added a greater sense for lay people to realize their role in the Church. Just because they happened to live in a geographical area, that they must go to that church, I think that sense kind of left them, that, um. You know, most people still go to the church nearest to them, which generally is their parish church, but I think more and more have said, where we find a spiritual home, is where we feel we hear the Gospel preached to us. Or, or sometimes it could be just a matter of convenience, we go to work that way, and that's nearest to us. Or as I said to you before, grandma and grandpa live there, and they're doing the babysitting, you know something like that.      I think there's a much greater fluidity, certainly here in Forest Hills, but I think in most areas actually that's true. The Council might have had something to do with it, in the sense that people didn't feel as constrained anymore perhaps. Um, you know, I mean, when I was a boy, Father Molloy and Msgr. McLaughlin at Queen of Martyrs to some degree, were very insistent that you would go to your parish church, even if you went to their school, you came here on Sundays also. That wouldn't happen anymore, if you were going to school there, you would probably go there, you know, so, you know.  [00:14:12]          Our school is the newer of the two, um, when I was growing up here, there was no school. And Father Molloy, who was the second pastor, was not enthused about building one, for whatever his own personal reasons were. A group of laymen, including my own father, went around and kind of solicited funds. He said -- you know, money has changed so much, it's almost hard to kind of [imagine] -- but he said, if you had, if you have $30,000, or something like that, we'll start. $30,000 of course in the mid-'50s was considerably more money than it is now. And they almost did it, and he said no, and gave the money back. So that, for a long time, the parish, when I was growing up, lacked a center in a sense. It almost continued to be a chapel of ease in a sense, because those parents who wanted their children to go to a Catholic school did what they could to get them into the neighboring parishes, so fellas and girls my age who still live here, or have moved on to other places, all remember going to different grade schools. Some of us went to public school, like I started in public school, here on the next block.      I was transferred to Our Lady Queen of Martyrs, others, friends of mine and things went to St. Margaret's in Middle Village, or Holy Child in Richmond Hill, or Sacred Heart in Glendale, which was not so good for the parish because it  spread everybody. Your first, your first loyalty might be where you were going to school, you know, so, um, it wasn't until the building of the school, I think, that a greater cohesiveness came into the parish.  [00:15:58]         But at the same time, unfortunately, around that time, the traditional societies that very often held people together began to die off. When I came back here, I was telling people on Sunday, when I was sent back here, seven years ago, where did the Holy Name Society go? Where's the Rosary Society? These were the groups that really brought out a lot of the people. It's very hard now to get volunteers for these things, because well, everybody's working and everybody's schedules are so crazy, so, but you know, anyway.     AB  Can you tell me a little more about growing up in Forest Hills, and like, what was it like, switching from public school to the Catholic school?   [00:16:44]  MM  Um, traumatic. [laughs] Not in a bad way, but just that I was very happy at P.S. 144. My father would be very aged now, if he were alive, he'd be 111, and he had grown up in a time where, from the first day of school, you learned how to do script and the times tables. And when I had reached third grade, here, they weren't doing that yet. I had a ball -- we drew pictures, and did finger-paints, and I thought, if this is school, I'm into this. So, um, he was not happy, and he went to Msgr. McLaughlin, I guess. You know, when you're eight, you're not aware of the background material that's going on here. So, Dr. Pearlburg, who was the principal on the next block, begged my mother to leave me there. He said, if I recall correctly now, it's so long ago, you know that they would catch up, that there was a different system in place. But my dad was impatient about it. So I went from a class of twenty-five, now there were about six classes of twenty-five second graders, to one class of about seventy at Our Lady Queen of Martyrs. They became so crowded over there that when my brother started after me, three years later, there were two sessions. There were 120 kids in the first grade, so they had -- the poor nun came one session in the morning, did this, then went to the convent for lunch and whatever chores she had, and then came back in the afternoon and did the same thing over again with the other half. But that was the reason for the change, and my father had the advantage of knowing Msgr. McLaughlin, because they had been here so long, so he knew him.  [00:18:28]          And I remember the interview, sitting in an office something like this, and him telling me, holding up these drawings that the kids in the third grade had done, and him saying, "Now Johnny, this is the type of work that we do here, we want you to do this," and then saying to my mother, "Mary, you bring the boy Monday, and see Mother Wenceslas" -- religious principals usually had the title "Mother" -- ahem. And, um, well, first of all, I was startled to realize that my mother had a first name, because when you're a little kid, her first name is "Mommy."      And then Monday, when we appeared, Mother Wenceslas was fashionably late, and came in, and I thought I was going to have weeks to think about this, talk it over. And she says to my mother after they got through talking about I guess, you know, does he have his diphtheria shots or whatever, "Well there's no time like now, Mrs. McGuirl," takes my hand, leads me across the hall, there's a door, IN, and, you know, "You come back and get him at three o'clock this  afternoon." So there you are.  The plunge has been made. So, once I was there you know, I mean, some of the kids from this parish went there, there was a girl around the corner from me that was very helpful, actually, she's still around here, actually, in getting me settled, and I made a lifelong friend then, he's also a priest in this Diocese, Msgr. Edward Ryan, who -- we got to meet because there were no seats, so the Sister looked down the aisle and saw Mr. Ryan was very small, and said, "Move over a bit, and let the new boy sit down next to you," because we were both so tiny that we could occupy the one seat. We're still friendly all these years later. So it was a bit of a trauma, in a sense, because it wasn't really expected, you know; kids are oblivious to what their parents are talking about, and all of a sudden you have this presented to you, "You're going there," you know.  [00:20:27]           From there, I went to Archbishop Molloy High School, which is still there in Briarwood, and then to the college seminary after that, so um. Because of the fact that we were all scattered, though, unfortunately, there weren't like teams in the parish, not that I was the greatest of athletes, but, there was a lack of center in a sense at that time, which I think the people now are much more fortunate in having. The school still serves that function in parishes that have them. Ours does pretty well, there are about 320 kids there, and it's now an academy, which simply means the governance is moved to a lay board of directors. Myself and my associate are responsible for the spiritual development of the school, but we're not -- the pastor is no longer the, you know, the technical boss anymore.  The board of directors is, but you know the parish still owns the school.  [00:21:24]          Growing up, it was like a small town then. I remember distinctly in the summer, you rarely wore shoes. And you could play in the streets, like wiffle ball or stick-ball or something and very rarely would there be a car, and when they did come through and interrupt the game, they were probably sorry they did. But it was a much smaller atmosphere then, it was really kind of like a small town.  There was a lot of open land -- Now I'm sixty-eight years of age, so we're going back a bit -- we're going back sixty years or more. There was still a large farm on Woodhaven Blvd. that had cows, and over here, where the large apartment houses are, much of that space was empty, sometimes used in the summer by carnivals that would come or smaller circuses, um. I still remember the street cars up here on Metropolitan Avenue, the trolley cars. It was a much smaller atmosphere. I think for boys, I'm not sure how much the girls enjoyed it, but when you were  a small boy, there were a lot of lots you could play forts in and Indians, you know, I mean, there was a lot more -- there was a lot more playing area, actually. Now there's really just the schoolyard on the next block, which was there then, too, but there was a lot more lots, almost every block had some unoccupied land yet, that's all gone. Except on this block, on the end of the street. There's still one lot, no one seems to know who owns it, or why it's never sold, or -- it's been that way, always. But, it was a good time growing up, I mean, you know, I guess it wasn't too much different than anybody else's, but you know, it was a place.  [00:23:17]          There was a little bit of social stratification then, though. This area down here, from the church down, is more modest housing. Wooden frame, built around 1925 through about 1930. Our house, as I said, was put up in '25, and my  grandparents and my father and his sisters moved in that year. Um, the um, then, there was Forest Hills Gardens, which does keep its own way, you know the streets are owned by the Gardens Corporation, and um, they have their own very strict terms of zoning, what you can do to your house, what you cannot do to your house, you know, and when you move in there you sign a covenant indicating you will abide by those rules. Then between the Gardens and here, beginning right here, where we're sitting in the church actually, is what's called the Van Court Association, which does not own the streets, but keeps somewhat of the Gardens' zoning laws. I'm not quite sure what their penal -- you know if you defy them, I'm not too sure how far they can go in law to force you to observe them, I'm not really sure of that, and I don't wish to find out personally.  [00:24:35]         At that time though, there was a lot more, I think, sensitivity as to where you were living and maybe what background you had. I can remember as a little boy, I hung around with kids in the Gardens because they went to school with me at Queen of Martyrs, but being informed going over to Station Square -- the green, there, between Greenway North and South -- they used to have a carnival, in the early summer, maybe in June sometime, going to it, being told "you don't belong here because you don't belong in the Gardens." [chuckling] Or a place like the West Side Tennis Club, then, not now, now it's very open and very embracing of everybody -- but walking past that on the way home from school, thinking I will never be in that property, you know, it was -- it was very different. [chuckling] So, um, the um, all of-- much of that has broken down. Thankfully, in a sense, some of that kind of privilege kind of thing.      Mrs. Sage, when she -- she was the, Mrs. Russell Sage was the, Olivia, I think her first name was, was the widow of a railroad magnate in this country. She was much younger than him, and she used the money, she wanted to found this garden community for, as it was stated, "white Anglo-Saxon Protestants," working class. What Mrs. Sage considered "working class," and what other people consider "working class," it goes to show kind of a rather elevated sense of who the workers were in the country, because it was built, as it is now obviously, for people of some means. I mean, you don't live in the Gardens unless you've got a little bit of pocket money. And um, but it has varied a great deal, it used to be, well, what Mrs. Sage intended it to be in the beginning, but um, you know, that sort of thing can't be maintained in the present day and age.   [00:26:48]  AB  So can you tell me about the Long Island Railroad coming through here?     MM  Well, the branch nearest to us, which no longer operates. There's a station at Forest Hills now, about eleven blocks from here. Good service actually, it gets you to Penn Station in fourteen minutes from Forest Hills. Very often, they don't even stop at Woodside. This is the last stop before Manhattan. There used to be another option though. Up 'til about 1950, there's a line over here -- I don't know, you are familiar with it right --     AB  Yeah.     MM  -- that used to run to Rockaway Park. If you go down to Rockaway Park, at 116th  Street, the end of the line of what now is the A Train, it'll say over the door, "Long Island Railroad," and that was the last stop on the railroad. That trestle that's up in the Rockaways was built by the LIRR. In 1950, though, and it was something that apparently happened before that -- they had a wooden trestle that crossed Jamaica Bay. And well it had burnt before, because there was no air conditioning, people smoked, so you know, some guy or girl would be smoking, throw the butt out the window, and it would land on the creosote-coated ties, and they're wooden, and it would start to burn and you know so. But on this last time, apparently it happened at a point in the year when there was low tide, and they couldn't get the fire boats near the trestle close enough to put the fire out, and uh, it burnt. I remember as a boy, riding the bus down to Rockaway, and you could see these stumps coming up out of the water. It burnt right through from Hamilton Beach, which is just south of Howard Beach, to Broad Channel. Several communities that depended on the railroad for access, that or boats, the Raunt and Goose Creek, both disappeared because there was no way in or out any more. Now what those communities did about sanitation and everything, you might not want to know [laughing], but they stood on stilts out on the water, and Long Island Railroad had stops there, and I guess they were mostly fishing communities in Jamaica Bay, things like that.  [00:29:02]          The LIRR continued to run trains to Howard Beach, and then somewhere, and I'm not sure the timing, in the late '50s early '60s, the subway, well, the Transit Authority of New York City, bought the right-of-way between Liberty Avenue and the whole rest of it to Rockaway, with the idea of branching the A Train onto it, which they've done, and that's the subway service that the people in the Rockaways now get, from two directions, one down here, and you can go along the long route around and go into Far Rockaway from Nassau CountyÕs side.      The trains continued to run to Howard-- to Ozone Park, and they stopped, I think it was June of 1962. I was on the last train. Myself and Msgr. Ryan who I mentioned earlier, we were teenagers then, about junior year in high school, we decided we were going to ride the last one. So we bought a ticket at Rego Park, there was a station there then, and intending to get off here, which would be about a mile and a half, two miles at the most, but the people that were -- used it every day for commuting to Manhattan -- and it wasn't a bad commute either -- broke out a bottle of champagne, and we were both kind of naive about drinking -- we didn't do anything wrong, but we were afraid to come home with the smell of champagne on our breath, so we rode all the way to Ozone Park. And it was a beautiful ride, I mean, it used to go right through the middle of Forest Park, it was like you were out in the woods someplace, you'd never think you were in NYC. And that was the last day of service. So no trains have run up there since 1962, as it shows; I mean, it's become jungle growth since. The ties and the rails are all in place, the LIRR never pulled them up. And I'm not really too sure who owns the property -- I suspect the MTA, but I'm not positive.  [00:31:14]         So, as you mentioned, there's been all sorts of talk now of changing that into sort of like the Highway -- what is that -- the Highline in Manhattan, you know, having kind of a walk park kind of thing. Whether that will come to pass or not, is, is -- we're not really in the center of Manhattan, where it's busy all the time. It's a bit remote.      AB  Right.     MM  What we could use Ð do you drive?     AB  I do.     MM  Have you driven on Woodhaven Blvd. lately?     AB  Ahh, no. [Laughing]     MM  Well, no matter what time of the day, it is a mob scene. And we really could use some north-and-south transportation here. There is no subway line that goes all the way from north to south, and this line of the LIRR, kind of filled that bill, to a degree, at least you got as far as Queens Blvd., but, so I know some city representatives in down Howard Beach, and Broad Channel, Rockaway, are pushing to have it reevaluated possibly as a rail line or perhaps light rail or something, but then there's another group that's very vociferous about turning it into a greenway sort of, you know.  [00:32:33]         I don't know where I stand on it. I mean I see the need for transportation, because the streets are getting clogged with traffic, even out here. On the other hand, you know, I can understand people who, since 1962, have bought homes along Selfridge or Alderton Street, they have no memory of the trains running there, and now to be told that they might be there again, unless they built like these baffles that you see along the LIE, that they could have noise or racket. You know, of course, I guess there's ways of buttressing that. But you know they're not used to it. They weren't there when they were running.  The people that bought houses there originally knew when they were buying, what was in their back yard, you know, so. Where that will be resolved, I don't know.  [00:33:22]         But when I was a boy in grade school, first starting school, it was still running to Rockaway, and then around, as I said in 1950, it was cut back and then ultimately in '62, back to Ozone. Well, it was going to Ozone Park, and that was the last year.  Even if the LIRR had kept it running, even if it only went to Howard Beach, it would have helped congestion out here, but I believe the railroad, which was dominated by the Pennsylvania Railroad then was in one of its many bouts of receivership, couldn't -- was not a state agency yet, couldn't really afford to keep it up and repair track and stations and things like that, so they let it go.     AB  Can you tell me a little more about that last ride, what it looked like, um, I know--   [00:34:12]  MM  By then there was only one track operating. If you go up to -- it's hard to get to -- there's playing fields on what used to be a farm, when I was a little tiny guy, and at Fleet Street -- they've now been turned into ball, baseball courts -- the Forest Hills Little League and youth athletic association use it. About a half a mile behind -- and this line runs on its western border -- if you were to go about half a  mile north of that, you'd come to what used to be called Whitepot Junction, and Whitepot Junction -- Whitepot was the original name of this area. There's all sorts of reasons why--some say the land was purchased from the Native people with white pots, others say it was some landmark in the area, who knows. But it's there, if you're on 63rd Drive, and you look up, when you go under the main branch of the LIRR, it might seem awfully, for four tracks, an awfully wide trestle. Well, there were once six, because that's where the Rockaway Branch broke off, and the southern passage was easy; they just switched off. The northern one, there was an under-chute, and it went under the railroad and came up the other side. I believe they've had to fill that tunnel in, because teenagers were using it [laughing]. But there's where the train is. There's still a big -- it's all overgrown now, but a big open area there of several acres, where the railroad went up under and then joined the main branch and then came down.  [00:35:56]         When we got on at Rego Park, of course the first part of the ride up here, to this station up here, Metropolitan was Park Side Station, and it was kind of above the backyards of people's homes. And then, when you cross Metropolitan Avenue, there was that slight industrial area there, where Target and Home Depot and those places are now. And then you entered into Forest Park, and that was the next mile or so, as I said to you before, it was like being out in the country. You would never have realized -- you were hanging out of windows taking pictures, you know, and I have some from that ride here, and you woulda thought, if someone said you were in New York City, you would say, no you're not, you're out in the country some place, you know. And then it broke out of the forest, and you were kind of in Ozone Park, or Woodhaven actually at first, and then Ozone Park. And that's then where it ended.      It was a nice ride, a pleasant ride, because there was no air conditioning in those days, the only way to get air into the cars was to open all the windows, so you know, but the Long Island over the years had decreased traffic to the degree that this was basically one track. They lowered the platforms, there was a wooden platform here that you entered a door level, with station houses and everything, and they had all been kind of abandoned, so they were in a bad, bad state of disrepair by then. There was one track used, and they had actually put a new platform on ground level, over one of the tracks actually, here at Park Side, so you knew they weren't operating that. And service had been reduced to I think like two trains in the morning and two trains in the afternoon, so they would never meet anything, there was no need to have the two tracks and keeping them up because you know the two in the morning go to Manhattan and the two in the afternoon come out, and there was nothing -- they weren't going to meet anything coming in the other direction, so.  [00:37:54]          Again, it was a bit of short-sightedness, but who knew? You know, even 1962, Queens was quite a bit different than it is now. Who knew that the congestion, that people would think honestly about owning more than one car in a family and things like that, that the people don't use their garages any more, they use them for storage, almost everybody -- even in the Gardens, which kind of surprises me, because that used to be taboo, park in the streets now. Many of these streets really are not made for parking on both sides and a lane of traffic in between. It's -- if you have rear-view mirrors that stick out, you wonder if you're gonna lose  them on some of the streets.      So with a little bit more of looking ahead, they might have kept it open. It would have provided very good service for folks down this way, and in Glendale, and Ozone Park and Woodhaven, very good access to the city. Because once again, going north -- there were several stations south of here -- Brooklyn Manor, Ozone Park itself, there was another one in there, the name escapes me, Park Side here in Forest Hills, and then Rego Park, and then once, one more stop in Woodside, and then you were in Manhattan, you know, so I mean it had possibilities, but I guess they weren't thinking along those lines then. LIRR was in a state of kind of pulling back where they didn't think service was heavy.      Even many of the Queens stations -- like there was a station at Elmhurst once, and now there's talk of putting it back in, because Elmhurst has boomed, and there's a huge population. The subway can barely contain all the people that want to get to Manhattan on the E and the F every day. And the railroad is parallel. In southeastern Queens, some stations were kind of ignored, and there, people can very rightfully complain that they have no transportation. You've got to take a bus to Jamaica and then another bus, and so -- just, if you're gonna work for Manhattan, and you live in St. Alban's, or Baisley Park, Laurelton, places like that, Rosedale, you really have a hike every day, you know, and it helps very much if the railroad has those stations running, because it's much more convenient.  [00:40:10]          As a senior now, I can get half-fare here off-peak, and that means it's only a little bit higher than the subway, and you're bound to get a seat, and even if you shouldn't on some day, you're gonna be in Manhattan in fourteen minutes, anybody could stand for that distance. So, it would have been, had they kept it running, a good thing I think for the community and the area, but what's done is done, I suppose. And now, you have difference of opinions and rather strong ones about how it should be used you know, or should it be used or just sit there and moulder.     AB  Right.     MM  Even if it becomes a greenway, they're going to have to do a lot of work, because when the railroad was running, obviously then there were no trees on the top of it, you know, trains kept them from running - growing. Now, it's like jungle growth, you know, and unless you're going to get kind of a wild jungle sense of it, but I'm sure they want to put a walkway in. So a lot work is going to have to be done, no matter what's done with it. If it becomes a walkway, obviously, the rails that have been sitting there in a very bad state now, the ties a lot of them have rotted, the third rail has collapsed of its -- you know, the little insulators itÕs on -- but all that would have to come up. I know at least one of the tracks on the Highway-- the Highline in Manhattan, they've kept some of the trackage just to keep it, but you know its flowerbeds and things.      I think one of the problems they'll face here too will be maint -- not only maintenance, but also security. We're not in the middle of Manhattan, and at night, this can be a very quiet neighborhood. I remember walking once from Woodhaven Blvd., a few years back, after taking the subway into Manhattan, got  off with a friend at Woodhaven Blvd./Slattery Place, and walked from there, and the whole distance after I left him, I met about one person. Now where I was formerly at Jackson Heights for twelve years at St. Joan of Arc, you didn't walk out the back door and walk five feet before you met all sorts of people. So it is very quiet, which a lot of people relish. It's a quiet neighborhood, you don't have the racket and the noise that many neighborhoods do have, but I suppose the downside of that is that has to be secured, and who's going to do that? Do they have patrolmen up there at night? Or are they gonna have -- the people that are worried about having the trains in their backyard might be worried also about having, well, you know, kids are kids.  [00:43:06]         I was one once, too, and I remember once going up there to watch the trains on Sunday when I was expected to join my parents for -- they used to have Benediction and Rosary here in the afternoon before there were any evening Masses. My parents always went, and I didn't show up on time. My father came looking, he must have asked somebody on the block where I was. It's the only time he ever hit me in public, because they were afraid, because there had been a couple of electrocutions, kids that crawled up under the fences and touched the third rail. I remember them warning us, at P.S. 144, never go there, never go up in it, you know, and of course, boys are boys. Warned, that means you might do it [laughing]. If my parents knew where I went on a bike at that age, but they were smart enough -- ÒWhere were you?Ó Out. ÒWho were you with?Ó People, friends. ÒWhere did you go?Ó Around. Around sometimes meant taking the bike to Howard Beach or out to Bayside [chuckling].  [00:44:02]         So, you know, we'll see what happens. I don't -- the City moves slowly, so I expect to be well into retirement by the time anything happens over there, but you know. And there's two very valid points of view, I think: one, that it'd be nice to have like a garden that runs from Forest Park up to almost to Queens Blvd. On the other hand, we certainly could use public transportation in central Queens. I went to Manhattan -- I have a Sister-friend who's not well in Yardley, Pennsylvania -- and some friends and I went down to see her. We took the Jersey transit from Penn Station to Trenton, and a Sister picked us up there, but I took the LIRR in, I guess it was Martin Luther King Day, and I was surprised at the number of people waiting for the train. The Long Island over here, and that's every day. Years back, you'd have a handful of people getting on here. Not anymore, because the subway is such a mob scene. It was built at a time where a lot of the apartment houses on Queens Blvd. were not there. And every time they build another one, there's never any sense of planning in Queens. You need to think about the infrastructure. How are you going to put up another 30-story apartment house and ask those people to get on to already-crowded subway trains to get to Manhattan? And most people, most people still work in Manhattan. There's never a thought about that. You go to Continental Avenue in the morning, it's a mob scene.  So anywayÉ   [00:45:46]  AB  I have just one more question for you. I was just curious, what made you decide to become a priest?     MM  I thought about it in grade school, which was not uncommon then, many boys  did. And there was a priest at Our Lady Queen of Martyrs, he was a young priest then, Father Michael Conroy. He's deceased now, for about ten, ten or more years. He had -- he was very influential. He came to the classes, and he was running a club for the kids after school, called the "Olquom" Club, the Our Lady Queen of Martyrs Club, that's OLQM, "O-L-Q-M Club." We all belonged to it, you know, you looked at him, and you'd say, "he's doing good things for people." There was a certain mystique about it, certainly. And part of that was he knew a language - we didn't all know Latin. I think for a small boy, that, you know, you purify or clarify your beliefs over the years about why you did it, but I think at first there's that kind of that attraction that kids might have even to being a fireman or a policeman, you know, the uniform and everything. Very small children might think, I wanna be a fireman, they think about saving people, they never think about -- and they can't think about, at that age -- the, um, the, well, the ugly part of life that firemen, fire personnel get to see, burning, people burned in fires, or that policemen get to see regularly. But there's a sense of that, there was a sense of that. The sisters all looked -- in those days, virtually, Queen of Martyrs, every class, there was a sister in charge, and they helped. I mean, they were living symbols of dedication to God and to his people. This was the day when everybody wore a -- all the sisters wore a full habit. And very often, the sisters had kind of looked around also to see who, what girl might be good for the convent -- not that they pushed it, but they kind of, you know, maybe clarified your thinking a bit.      I had wanted to go to Cathedral High School, which was then in Brooklyn. (The Brooklyn branch was closed, the Queens branch that was built later is still over here in Elmhurst, 56-25 92nd Street.) And my parents said no. I tended to be tall and lanky that hasnÕt changed, and a lot of tall kids out of their turn are a little bit shy about it, and I think they thought if I went into kind of what was then a very restricted high school, nowadays it would not be, but certainly then it was, that it might not be best for Junior, so they said you can go to any other high school, they got the cold shoulder for about a month, but I settled on Molloy, because it was near, almost within walking distance. But the idea never left, and after Molloy, I applied then to Cathedral College, which was also located in the Crown Heights section of Brooklyn, not now, but it was then. So I think it was the example of both the sisters and Father Conroy.      The priests here were good men, but we didn't have, except for Sunday Mass, you didn't have much relationship with them because, as I mentioned, there was no school, and therefore there was not -- where you went to school was much more your center of attention, though I was an altar server here and continued to serve until I was about seventeen years of age, as a good number, as some still do. We have several young men and girls that are serving well into high school. So I think it was all of those things, my parents certainly practiced their faith. So it was part of their whole way of life, too, I mean, you know your parents gave good example in terms of their practice. They never, they certainly never pushed. I think a lot of families, they knew, in Irish family they want someone to be a priest. Well, mine didn't, particularly. They didn't stand in my way, but they were not exactly thrilled. Until I was a deacon, and that would have been in the fourth year of post-college theological study where they began to realize -- I was  stationed part of the year at St. Teresa's in Woodside, and they would start to come to Mass there on Sunday, and I think they saw the reception I had, and the rapport I had with the people and they with me. So I think they kind of began to realize maybe this was what I was cut out to do.      Even before that, they had gone to -- I had worked in the summer, several summers, in Transfiguration parish in Williamsburg, Marcy Avenue Brooklyn, and they were starting to come down to the plays. There was a sister there, Sister Marce2, she just died last year, two years ago, actually, and she was dead-serious about the plays she ran. I mean, she got the libretto, and rented them, and the kids -- there was no just heel and toe and away we go sort of thing, it was you know, shows. They put on The West Side Story and The Sound of Music and others. And I'd look out in this sea of almost all Hispanic faces, and see these two -- my parents had complexions that if they walked across the yard in the summer without a hat they were bound for heat prostration [sic]. And I said, "What did you-- how did you get here?" "We came on the bus." "And you walked through the south side, Los Sures?" which then was tough territory. "Beautiful, warm lovely people, they walked us right to the door." So I think that helped too, that they saw that their son, whom, I think, surprisingly they thought could relate with the folks who lived down there and was picking up some Spanish and things like that. You know I guess parents -- not being one, I can't exactly say, but -- I guess at some point parents, too begin to realize that maybe this is what their kids are cut out for, that this was meant to be.  [00:51:51]          So they certainly influenced younger years, you know, prayer at home, and regular attendance at Mass, and as I mentioned earlier in the course of another story, coming back on Sunday afternoons for benediction and rosary. The fact that they wanted me in Catholic schools after my debut in P.S. 144. And I think Father Conroy, and not for just myself, Msgr. Ryan, also who I met in grade school would talk about Father Mike's kind of influence, that he was, you know, very present to the kids, and many of the sisters were. I remember my seventh grade Sister, who I believe is still alive in Scranton, Pennsylvania, Sister John-Berkmans, would go out and toss a football around with the boys. And that made a big impression then, that the sisters were able to relate that way, that they were real human beings, and she knew how to throw the ball better than most of the boys did actually. We had a couple of winners, though, one sixth grade Sister was [wags finger] -- but most of the sisters were very fine women and really gave themselves to this. You know, when you think of the conditions they worked in -- you know, seventy kids in a room -- and younger sisters, double periods, same class over, twice a day, the same thing over again, starting seven in the morning and ending up around six in the evening. So I think all of those influences -- I can't say at what moment; that's like -- I don't know if you're seeing anybody, but that'd be like saying, "When did you fall in love with your boyfriend?" You know is there a moment you can go back to? "Oh well it was July 4, 19 -- 2013, or something when we fell in love." You grow into it, really, and is there a point where you realize you fell in love, and I suppose it's the same thing.  [00:53:43]         It's been a good life. I mean, it's not been the easiest period to live in as a  2 Sister Marcella. priest, for very obvious reasons that you and everybody else read about rather regularly in the newspapers. The shame of it is many of those cases, as tragic and as horrid and sinful and criminal as they may have been, were also a long time ago, and they keep on re-drumming this and re-drumming this, and it's very hard to live with that. Because you do wonder on Sundays, what do these folks out in front really think about you? I mean, the reception seems to be great, and people like you, and "Father, we want you to stay here," but every once in a while, that thought comes, "What do these folks really think?"  [00:54:27]         And it hasn't been the easiest period to be a priest. We also experienced -- you mentioned it earlier -- the Council. I grew up expecting that, you know, you'd be using Latin for the rest of your life. I had to take seven or eight years of it; never did particularly well with it, but now remember more than most. Well, a priest friend of mine kids and says, when we were ordained, we still expected we'd go to a parish where there'd be three priests, plus the pastor who would be in semi-retirement who would do the work, there'd be a convent filled with nuns, and then all of a sudden, the bottom all dropped out of that really within a year or two after my ordination.      So now we have a parish, there's two of us here, and neither of us -- I'm, well, I'm not young at all, and he's 37, and you might say, well, that's, that's pretty young. It is, but years back, it wasn't. When you said you had a young priest, you meant you had someone who was 26 or 27 years of age, not 37 or 38, you know, that was middle-aged. And that has all changed, so we've had to adapt quite a bit, and the role of the laity, of course has increased, first of all because it should've. I mean, you guys are 99.9% of the Church, but also maybe sometimes, what drives that is maybe the more negative thing, and that is that there's not going to be enough priests, and there aren't now enough sisters. I mean, the active religious orders -- some of those that have kept, like the Little Sisters of the Poor were here yesterday, they run Queen of Peace Residence in Queens Village, they serve the elderly, and that's it. If you want to do something else, you don't join them. You join them you want to serve the elderly. They've kept the habit, they've kept a formalized way of life, and they do get some people, not a lot, but they get some. Whereas a lot of the active communities, like the Sister Servants of the Immaculate Heart of Mary that served here, they really get nobody now. I mean, it's a real crisis for them. I mean, what are they going to do? Not to make light of it at all, but what are their plans for the end, in a way?  [00:56:46]         Some of the newer communities that have evolved out west -- there's several Dominican communities -- but if you join them, you teach. That's what you do. You're not gonna go and do pastoral services, you're not gonna do social work, you're gonna teach. And maybe because of that, because they've kept one particular identity, they do get people. But unfortunately, they're not here on the east coast. So we really have gone through an earthquake-like change in the last forty or so years, and those of us still around that remember that. Some of the younger guys coming out really don't understand. We have a deacon coming on weekends, and he's only 26, and he'll be ordained in June. Well I was a priest long before he was born. And my associate, too. I've been a priest 42 years, he's 37, so I could have baptized him also. They don't have any idea what really you went through, the craziness that went on. The kind of the, the lid was lifted off  the pot, and bingo! And, you know, so and wild stuff that went on. Just. It was all accepted. That's why sometimes even some of these cases that you hear about in terms of priests -- of religious doing what they should not have done, but you're judging what went on then by modern standards. It's like people who complain about the Crusades or something. Yeah, but the Crusades were the twelfth century. Now you wouldn't do that. But then, that was seen as being the thing to do. Like I remember cases where kids would be living in rectories because they were thrown out of their homes. Well in a million years, you wouldn't do that now. Even if a kid was out in the street, you wouldn't invite them to live here. You'd try to get them into Covenant House or something like that. But it was a different time and place. Unfortunately maybe.  [00:58:48]         But not the best period to live in, though I have to say there's been a great amount of personal satisfaction, in terms of -- even people you hear from now, sometimes people you haven't heard from in a good long time will call you up and say, "Father, I remember what you said in class when I was in eighth grade" -- I have no memory of it, you know, but apparently it hit them. Even yesterday, a boy who's had some high school problems was in to talk for a while. So you know you hit people in a lot of different ways, sometimes you're unaware of. One of the difficulties -- and probably your own if you go into teaching, Abby, later on, or whatever, however you see living out your degree, probably teaching of some sort -- is that your influence on young people particularly isÉit's long-term. They -- you may not hear at first. You know, they graduate, they go away, and then all of a sudden, you get that letter twenty years from now, that says, "Oh I remember what you said in class, and it changed my life," you know, you had no idea you had done that. You don't even remember actually what you had said, but they remembered. So its things like that. It's been satisfying.  [01:00:00]         As our numbers get smaller, I do worry a bit, like what's gonna be ahead. The clergy, just as the Diocese is changing very much, demographically, as New York City does. It's always shifting from new groups of immigrants coming, or people from other parts of the country like yourself [chuckles]. But also, like, for instance, the ordination classes this year, many would be of a Hispanic background, there might be a couple Filipinos, and these are Hispanics who are born here.  Their parents might have been born overseas, so there's been a shift. When I was ordained, almost inevitably everybody had an Irish or Italian last name. And even those that had one name or another very often were half. I think in my class of twenty-three when we were ordained was probably about easily fifteen probably had an Irish surname. Now that would be very very rare. Very rare. A Hispanic surname would probably be -- which is good, because very often they're bilingual and certainly we have a large Hispanic population. I can muddle along in Spanish, but you are not speaking to Cervantes, and you never will.      I don't know is there anything else you want to know?     AB  I think that pretty much covers everything that I was hoping to cover.     MM  Alright, alright. Well, if there's anything you think of, Abby, when you get back to school and say, "Oh drat, I should've asked him that but forgot about it," feel free to call.      AB  Okay.     MM  Alright.     AB  Alright. And this has been Abby Banks and Monsignor McGuirl, and its March 3rd, I think, 2014.   