My name is Panayiotis Menikou.  IÕm a store owner.  I started this store Euromarket six years ago.  I am Greek from Cyprus.  I moved here in 1980.  Before I had Cyprus Deli, another nice, little store, and six years ago we started this one.   When I had the small store on 30th Avenue, a lot of people asked for their products.  So I had the idea that they need these products, and I found out there isnÕt a big supermarket for them.  We have Yugoslavian products, Bosnian, Serbians, Montenegrins, Polish, Greek, all these Eastern bloc countries.   Slowly, slowly we are going to have everything.   They have companies that import.  And then IÕm the retailer.  I buy from them.   Beer is my very thing!  Because the other store Cyprus Delhi was very famous for the beers.  We were the first ones to have all these German and Belgian beers.   Here we sell more than seven hundred kinds, beers from all over the world.  My own favorite is Duvel from Belgium.  Everybody has a different taste, different satisfaction.  Duvel is a full beer, strong, I like it.  Before this place was a pool place.  It was closed for a couple of years.  Then one day I was passing by and I get the idea to make it a supermarket.  ItÕs getting better now.  It was very hard at the beginning, to make the people come.  The location is off the Avenue, so you have to make the people know itÕs here.  That takes time.  ItÕs getting better now.  We have more products, and more people know.    There used to be a lot of Greek people here.  Now there is not, everything is changing.  A lot of Spanish people, Mexicans, Yugoslavians, different nationalities, they are coming in here.  Also there is a lot of development which brings a lot of people.     Mostly we employee people from the neighborhood.  IÕve lived here for 31 years.  I donÕt need to change.  I like it because it feels like you are in Europe, first of all.  Close to my house is everything.  The city is only 10-15 minutes, any time I want to go to the city, I take the train and I go.  ItÕs cheaper, and safer.   I work every day, seven days.  I have someone who opens the store about 8 oÕclock.  I come here around 9.30 or 10 and I stay here till midnight.  No, not much time to do other things.  Once or twice a year I take a trip to Greece to see my family.  No kids, IÕm single, my business takes my life!  2nd audio file:  So Cyprus has been occupied by the Turkish military since 1974.  When the invasion was happening I was fourteen years old.  They were killing everybody.  They came from the north towards the south.  My father put us in a tractor and we drove south to save ourselves.  So my father was in the street one day with five kids.  I have two brothers and two sisters.  And my mother too.  I said I wanted to take the radio; I had our big radio all ready.  He said oh no, youÕre going to break it.  We thought weÕd only leave for one day, two days and go back.  And we never went back until now.  So we worked hard.  And then when we finished high school, we had to go to the army of course.  Then we wondered what to do after that.  So some friends from the army they had come to college here.  So they registered us in a school here.  I went to Queens College to learn English.  Then I brought my brother, and then my other brother, and then my sister.  Everybody came here to study.  Now you can cross.  My brothers went to see my house.  But I didnÕt go.  I donÕt feel like going.  You know, Turkish people are living inside your house; you have to ask for permission to go.  This is ridiculous.  My father is not alive any more.  He passed away in 1991.  I think all this heavy stuff happening to him, it was bad for him.  My brothers went.  And they took my sister was thirteen months old when she left.  They took her to show her where she was born and where she made her first steps.  But I donÕt want to go. I know everything.  We have a lot of land there.  Today worth a lot of money, maybe $50 million.  And next to our land was one of the best beaches, Famagusta.  We always hope.  Cyprus is beautiful.  And the economy is not that bad at the moment.  We have a lot of tourism.  