Larry Menzie is an LGBT (Lesbian, Gay, Bi-Sexual, Transgender) activist in Queens, who participated in the formative stages of the Queens Pride organization in the 1990Õs and the Lesbian and Gay Democratic Club of Queens.  He was a primary founder of Generation Q, the first LGBT specific youth organization in Queens, now an afterschool drop-in center for lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, queer youth and allies, between the ages of 13 and 19.   He was born in Hicksville, Long Island and has lived there, in Manhattan, and Forest Hills most of his life. He is a social worker who previously worked as a Parole Officer and is now the Executive Director and Clinical Director of Queens Counseling for Change. The agency utilizes a variety of evidence based approaches to treat and prevent sexual abuse/violence by assisting primarily parolees, probationers, and individuals involved with criminal and family courts throughout the NYC area.  00:00:00 Larry Menzie was interviewed at his apartment, located in Forest Hills on December 6, 2017 at 2:03 p.m.  00:00:49 Larry was born in Hicksville, Long Island in October 1969.  He lived there until he was 21.  He obtained his MasterÕs Degree in Social Work in 1994.  That year, he moved to Manhattan, where he lived until 1997.  When he became a Parole Officer, in 1998, he had to locate away from the people he supervised, so he moved to Queens.  He lived at LeFrak City (Corona), then Parker Towers (Forest Hills) in 2006. In Forest Hills, he moved to his current apartment at Kennedy House, Forest Hills, in 2009. Except for a year in Indianapolis, Indiana, he has lived his entire life in New York.  00: 02:28 Larry got involved as an activist in Queens in 1998, because he wanted to continue his involvement in volunteer activity. He had been a volunteer in both gay and non-gay causes most of his adult life.  In Manhattan, he volunteered for the Gay and Lesbian Switchboard, counseling gay people, especially those with HIV.   00:03:04  He learned about LGBT organizations in Queens when he attended a resource fair for LGBT organizations at Borough Hall in Forest Hills in 1998.  About 60 people attended and ten LGBT organizations described their goals to the participants.  Larry joined the Lesbian and Gay Democratic Club of Queens and the Queens Lesbian and Gay Pride Committee.  *00:03:50 He worked with Danny Dromm and many others on the Pride Parade.  At that time, the parade was organized entirely by volunteers, who also organized fundraisers to support the parade because there was no public funding. It was built on Òsweat equity.Ó  Because he was a sworn law enforcement officer, he was asked to provide security to those that handled money for LGBT fundraisers. At that time, [the late 1990Õs] people threatened gay people in Queens, and his presence was requested as a precaution. In Elmhurst, an out gay man ran for political office and he was threatened by a New York Post reporter who said he would Òkick his teeth in.Ó At that time, Queens was conservative.  00:07:40 Between 1992-1999, many LGBT organizations Òbubbled-upÓ in Queens, including PFLAG.  Larry also served as the social services chair of Pride, due to his social work experience. Gay activists realized that if it was not safe for gay adults, it was not safe for young gay people. There was a need to be aware of security issues in the time period of 1999-2000.   *00:09:15 The Pride Committee received $10,000 in 1999, the organizationÕs first public funding.  Generation Q was formed in his living room.  He and Danny Dromm worked together to organize the first event for lesbian and gay youth, which occurred in April 1999 at Borough Hall.  Three kids showed up and they were shocked to find they were 13 and 14, instead of the 18 or 19 year olds they expected.  They wanted to create a Òsafe-spaceÓ that was not structured and let the kids be themselves.    00:11:30 They organized a contingent for LGBT youth for the Queens Pride Parade in June of 1999 and about 30 kids showed up. They also marched in the Pride Parade in Manhattan. They produced the early youth events with the AIDS Center of Queens County [ACQC], who advertised LGBT youth events and offered space for events.  00:13:28 They organized dance events for young LGBT people, held across the street from Borough Hall  in the ÒDarth VaderÓ room in Kew Gardens.  Larry advertised the dances by going to the only other place young LGBT people gathered during the late 1990Õs, the Piers in the Chelsea neighborhood of Manhattan.  He would pass out flyers and let young people know about the dances.  He felt it was necessary, as it was so important for young LGBT people to have a safer place to gather if they lived in Queens.   00:14:32 The dances were very successful, often, up to 300 people attended them.  He used his experience as a parole officer to create a Òsafe-place,Ó yet with firm boundaries, and the formula worked for the most part.  There was only one fight during one of the dances and they held many of them.  Over time, the youth got to know the older LGBT people, learning they had role-models. Giving kids that Òfirst momentÓ when they realized how many other LGBT kids there were in Queens was worth all the work he put into these early events.  00:16:29 Gen Q is now a part of the Pride Parade Organization.  By 2000, they moved to the Rainbow Community Center in Corona from Kew Gardens.  This was not as safe and some youth, especially women, stopped attending events.  00:18:47 On 8/22/2001, Edgar Garzon was murdered in Queens.  His death was considered a hate crime, just as Julio RiveraÕs was earlier.  The community galvanized around the issue, although it was soon overshadowed by the 9/11/2001 events.    00:20:14 In 2002, Gen Q moved from the Rainbow Center to Astoria. They stayed at the Rainbow Center until 2007.  In 2005, he and Danny Dromm withdrew as active participants.  They were able to turn over operations to the Queens Community House.  They had started SAGE Queens, an organization for senior LGBT people, and the organization could incorporate a youth group.   00:21:30 Queens Pride grew throughout the early 2000Õs.  They encountered public homophobia.  For example, in 2000, they testified for public funding for Queens Pride from Queens Borough and were not publicly named as an LGBT group.   Homophobia in Queens continued during the 2005-2006 time-period, when they were harassed by people who stalked them and they were told to Òkeep itÓ in Manhattan by other Queens residents.    00:23:25 Larry was the communications director of Lesbian Gay Democratic Club of Queens (LGDCQ), responsible for the publication of the newsletter and advertising events.  He oversaw taking it from a paper newsletter that had to be mailed, to fully emailing it and using social media. When LGDCQ first formed, politicians in Queens avoided publicly associating with them, because pictures of them at an LGBT event could be used against them during a primary election.  Danny Dromm and other members insisted they have the ÒLesbian ÐGayÓ part of their name published and forced politicians and the public to acknowledge the club as a lesbian and gay identified group.  They slowly gained acceptance from politicians by Òpounding the pavementÓ for them, walking precincts at elections and attending their fundraisers.  They would insist the group be publicly acknowledged as a lesbian and gay group each time they helped out.  They backed people who lost but were clear they only supported those who supported the LGBT community.  Eventually, they could back winning candidates who supported the LGBT community.  *00:25:38 By the time Christine Quinn became the first lesbian speaker of the New York City Council, she acknowledged the help of the Queens politicians, and the active involvement of the LGDCQ Club. This was a watershed moment for the LGDCQ Club and for Queens, with the retirement of Tom Manton and the election of Joe Crowley, who supported the LGBT community in Queens.  By 2000, politicians in Queens began to attend their events and publicly acknowledged the Club.  Today, they would not dare not support the LGBT community in Queens.   *00:28:09 Menzie attributes their success in gaining political support to a lot of Òlittle stepsÓ of coming out publicly and Ògetting to know peopleÓ so there is Òless of a barrierÓ between each other.  Danny Dromm would insist if the LGDCQ Club participated in an event, they would hold their pink banner proudly, and politicians had to be public about their active alliance with the LGBT community.  00:29:45 Today, in 2017, the Pride Committee of Queens gets money from public arts groups and they need less volunteers and fundraisers to hold the event.  Most of the street festivals are done by a group with public resources.  They used to have to clean their own streets after the parade, now the Sanitation Department cleans up! Organizing was more time consuming before social media allowed instant advertising of an event.  ÒWinter PrideÓ is their signature event for elected officials, where over 400 people show up.   00:32:01 Larry hopes that for the future, due to the recent election of President Trump and Republican majorities in Congress, they can protect what they have.  Although they had been more hopeful in 2016 of Òmoving onÓ from primarily LGBT issues, they now work with others to ensure all minorities, including LGBT people, are not abandoned by officials. They emphasize that all issues intersect, LGBT, class, race, and gender.  For example, criminal justice is an issue for the LGBT people as they face disparate issues when they are arrested and incarcerated.  They work with those in the LGBT community, especially transgender people and people of color, who face life with more limited incomes.  Politicians are often surprised that their club asks about many issues, not just LGBT ones, because they are also of concern to them.   00:35:15 Today, Gen Q is located at the Queens Community House.  It hosts a daily drop-in center for youth.  They do not hold as many dances as they do not have a place to hold that many people.   00:35:45 At the Central Y of Queens, there is a program for LGBT youth.  It was started by Long Island Pride and is supported by Danny Dromm.  00:36:54 Larry likes living in Forest Hills.  It has always been, and still is, known for being a safe and secure community.  Most of the community work he did was in Jackson Heights. There is an ÒOUT-Forest HillsÓ social group that was formed by Paul Mcnamee.   Dirk McCall started OUT Astoria and OUT Bronx and OUT Rockaways.  People join these groups and attend their social events, and usually learn how to get involved in other LGBT groups.  Still, you donÕt see a lot of visible LGBT people in Queens, making public displays of affection like holding hands, even in 2017. It is still not safe to do that. Forest Hills is dealing with housing issues and that will change the community.  00:39:30 Larry has always been a political activist.  He knew he wanted to be a social worker when he was 16, and become an advocate for social change.  He worked on issues of homeless, the mentally ill, and those who were HIV positive. This was due, in part, to growing up on Long Island and being bullied from the time he was in kindergarten to high school. He was determined to protect people due to his own experiences.  00:41:16 As a young adult, he worked with those on Rikers Island who had been diagnosed with the HIV virus, which in the early 1990Õs, was a death sentence. He participated in a switchboard that provided advice to those diagnosed with the HIV virus.  00:41:43 When he became a Parole Officer, he was the only ÒoutÓ gay Parole Officer he was aware of.  He had to work with his fellow officers to educate them and ensure they would work as a team to protect each other.  It was pretty ÒscandalousÓ to be a gay Parole Officer in 1998. Only years later, did he realize the harassment he went through. Now, there are a lot more out LGBT parole officers and the agency is a lot more tolerant. *00:43:38 Currently, he is a social worker and an activist for change in the criminal justice system, working primarily to reform the treatment of people convicted of crimes of sexual violence.  He started his own agency. He is President of the New York State Alliance for the Prevention of Sexual Abuse.  He works to end the harsher treatment of LGBT people when they are accused of sexual crimes. Both reforms [LGBT rights and criminal justice] have a similar pathway to social change, educating people for change through evidence based practices.   *00:48:15 Besides Councilmember Danny Dromm, other LGBT leaders in Queens include John Rusillo [active in Pride and Democratic Club, housing issues], Ed Mallon [transit specialist], Maritza Martinez [Verizon], and Bruce Friedman [President of LGDCQ and active in LGBT causes].  Over the years, they were role models because they worked in professions such as housing, transportation, telecommunications and demonstrated that LGBT people could work as professionals and were everywhere in society.  This message was very important for LGBT people in Queens coming of age in the last 20 years.  Also, there were many people of less Òpower and meansÓ who gave their time freely as volunteers to empower LGBT organizations, who worked in labor, such as the mail room, who contributed to the success of these organizations.  They used computers and copy machines at work to advertise events. They also were important role models for LGBT people in Queens.  Not everyone who is gay is rich and living on Fire Island.  *00:52:30 Larry emphasizes that many Òsmall stepsÓ were important contributions to the greater empowerment of LGBT people.  One example was using their LGBT Queens Club credit card at COSTCO that clearly stated they were a Lesbian Gay organization.  Clerks either reacted uncomfortably or mentioned that their relatives attended Gay Pride.  It took courage in the early days just to use the card to purchase items, but they did it nonetheless, because they knew they needed to be visible throughout Queens. These were moments of personal Òactivism and insecurity.Ó   *00:53:37 As an activist in Queen, Larry was required to challenge himself and gain leadership skills he would not have obtained had he stayed in Manhattan.  In Queens, he was on the Òfront-linesÓ and needed to learn to speak publicly, organize events, run organizations, speak to public officials, and reach out to people who did not favor LGBT people.  These skills gave him the confidence to excel later in this career and start his own advocacy organization.  Both require him to talk to others about uncomfortable issues. All of the small things give us the Òbig splashes.Ó  00:56:11 As a social worker, he never earned enough to live in Manhattan, so he stayed in Queens because he could afford it. It gave him a sense of community, which enveloped him early in his time here.  He could work in small but important ways and see changes in Queens.  00:57:45 He hopes that Queens will become increasingly more tolerant.  We need to protect those most vulnerable to the current administration, like LGBT immigrants, who face death if they are returned to their original countries.  Schools must be pressured to create an atmosphere free of harassment and bullying.  They need to support newly formed LGBT organizations in Queens, such as the one for South Asian LGBT people.   *1:01:05 A reminder of the need for constant vigilance was the recent gay bashing of students in the Bronx.  An LGBT student attacked others as a response to a bullying incident. Due to economic vulnerabilities, we must ensure LGBT youth have safe places in homeless shelters. ÒWhen we fix a problem, we donÕt rest, we move on.Ó A lot of people have Òmade this happen.Ó  Many Òtook risksÓ in attending an LGBT event. ÒMany small things created the big change.Ó   1:04:26 The interview ended at 3:07 p.m. on December 6, 2017.     