When I first settled down in Queens, I knew something was strange.  Besides getting accustomed to a new neighborhood, I had to get used to the fact that I might never work again.  Dozens of trips to chiropractors, neurologists, heart specialists, a clinical psychologist, lawyers, the Unemployment hearings, the Workers’ Comp hearings, Social Security—these were the events that made up my days and weeks and months.  It took the place of work, sort of.  One might say I was working, so to speak--“working the system.”  But more and more it dawned on me that, indeed, here I am, retired—at age forty-eight!  A friend, the son of a doctor, used to joke with me, the son of a landlord, that we were the “last of the leisure class.”  And looking at all the people scurrying past me to their workplace each day, it seemed as if the enviable transition to that state had come to pass for me.  The main problem, until I got adjusted to it, was the enormous amount of time on my hands.  I decided that, instead of letting it bother me, I would make like a Buddhist and just---wait.  Wait and, more importantly (like Sherlock Holmes), observe.  There was no sense to just letting events swirl around me, feeling envious of the able-bodied and employed.  I had a little money coming in.  I wasn’t starving.  So I determined to focus in on the little mundane things that were happening all around me.  And this is what the wise will do--authors, poets, painters, saints, i.e., observe, comment, and draw others to see what is going on all the time and all around them.  Every minute of the day something, somewhere is always happening.  And as the world turns, those little things which people who are busy with their work simply shrug off and take for granted, others, perhaps more enlightened, take for their soul’s inspiration.  "A lot of life," the renowned historian and scholar EugenWeber once declared, "is about things so trivial we do not bother to record them — only sometimes to note their absence, as with manners."  But here is where the poetry of life lies, and this is how, if I may be so bold, one’s destiny is mastered.  God is in the details, so the saying goes.  So a good part of my time during the day was turned to watching, as the writer Jane Jacobs so nicely put it, “the ballet of the good city sidewalk...replete with new improvisations.”  Rather than hopping and running to fix things, or worse, lamenting that I could neither hop nor run, I began to fix my eyes on Sunnyside, Queens, New York, USA.  The time--the mid-nineties.  Typical pre-9/11 New York City.    Take, for example, an ordinary day in June.  I am having my lunch outside the Reformed Church of Sunnyside, located on the corner of Forty-Eighth Street and Skillman Avenue in the borough of Queens.  It is perhaps, at least for me (and before the kids get out of school) the most peaceful spot on earth, despite the surrounding pastiche of joyless, overfed, waddling immigrant women, American dreamers, Al Anon kindred spirits and furtive illegal aliens of all stripes and colors.  It was worse in the early nineties.  The government was easy on them.  But here passes, as they say, the millennium mosaic, mine to put together in my head like so many social Leggoes, groaning all the while with an inward despair, but hopeful that this, too--this slow, stealthy deracination of Americans in their sleep--will pass away.  Don't fault me for commenting on it as I do.  I couldn't change it, anyway.  And I wouldn't trade the charm of these two benches for anything, except maybe a dozen free years in Hawaii.  On a warm day, they are from heaven.  As I say, it was worse.  Last year.  You could almost hear them laughing on the inside:   Stupid gringos, stupid Amerikanskies-- whatever they called us--We're getting this money, that money, buying our kids Power Rangers and every battery-powered toy you could throw at us.  Now the Bangladeshi merchant is crying--"Where are the food stamps?  They used to come every day--two hundred dollars from Uncle Sam."  Instead, nowadays, they just buy milk and cheap ices--but still the beer--always the beer.  The world most likely would cease to turn without cervesa fria.  Apparently our friend Giuliani, now well into his first term as Mayor of New York City, was making great strides in cutting back on the number of welfare freeloaders.  Switch to five in the morning--any morning.  Irish lads and lasses kicking around in the darkest hour just before dawn, knocking on the window of the corner pub--just their usual all-night stand, 'cause Irish girls figured out a long time ago that you didn't get with child if you stayed standing up and drinking until the sun rose on a new day.  You didn't have to sleep with anyone if you didn't get tired and say, "I want to go to bed!"  Or maybe they just hypnotically stay up late and drink. I never could figure it out.  Even in my teenage days of dating Carol this or Nancy that (Irish girls) I could never figure it out.  I guess it was just good to get out of the house, so they stayed out late.  They grab their gypsy cabs to who-knows-where, and leave the breaking, bloodshot day to Miguel and Maria, or Zoita and Dinell--whatever their names--on their way to work in the factory.  What factory?  Any factory.  Any sweatshop, any restaurant, any café, supermarket, car wash, assembly line, repair shop, whatever--anywhere.  Any work or hustle to pay the nine-hundred or so dollars a month the bloodsucker landlords are getting around here for their dump apartments.  The illegals get around the high rent by stuffing their space full of friends, relatives and fellow countrymen, where all who can begin breeding “anchor babies” to insure that they can’t be deported and that the city schools have no empty seats or classrooms.   I go for a walk--up to Sam the Korean in the twenty-four hour deli-grocery-of-the second-happiness to grab a cup of the best coffee in Queens--the kind you pour yourself with exactly the right amount of milk and sugar (no "whitener" and "sweetener" for this tough guy!) and, of course, you take a good "free" gulp to make sure of everything before you top it off again and clamp down the lid.  "O-ship, o-ship?" I gargle.  Meaning:  I want to pay only fifty cents instead of the usual sixty.  "Where you learn Korean?" Sam wants to know.  I tell him the same thing every time:  “Hey, this is New York--one hundred and ninety something languages spoken here, one hundred and seventy four in the schools.”  Funny, but there are only one hundred and seventy member nations in the U.N.  I would just like to find a bit of humorous common ground with this uptight, Asian-mentality Asian.  At night Sam is replaced by his obviously overworked teenage daughter, who naps with her head on the counter.  Probably good breaking-in for a career in medicine.  Someday I'll tell her that I was taking five gulps while she slept.  Oh, and “Sam” isn’t short for “Samuel.”  It is the Korean word for “three.”  I guess he was his father’s third shot at immortality.  Manhattan has some great and interesting people, but has no monopoly on them.  Matter of fact, everyone is so busy that for the most part, people are hard to know.  Dealing with them, in many ways—well, it’s like the old cliché about Chinese food:  after half an hour, you’re hungry again.  It seemed as though, here in Sunnyside, I was meeting colorful people with interesting stories almost at every turn.  For example, take Mr. Singh.  One couldn’t miss him in a crowd, since he is a turban-wearing Sikh, or Surdarji.  Sure, you'd like to pronounce the word as "seek", but, I'm sorry, it is "sickh."  To a sub-continental, he is, as I say, a Surd, or "Surdarji," using the diminutive “ji” ending, which connotes respect.  The Sikhs are the fighting men, heavy equipment operators and industrialists of India, but to the generally short and slender Hindus--the main body of Indians--they are their equivalent of our Polacks, with concomitant deprecatory anecdotes and humor.  Although he does have some medical problems that give us conversational common ground, Mr. Singh is quite healthy, actually.  "Imperially slim", as they say.  Very spry and lively for a gentleman in his eighties.  Still walks with a sprightly, military step.  He owes it, he says, to playing a lot of field hockey in his youth.  He is well-known throughout the neighborhood, loved and respected.  Ex-Indian Air Force, he has, I find by rather blunt questioning, fifteen "kills" to his credit.  And it is always fascinating to hear his early aviation and down-to-earth war stories.  I always regret not prompting him for more tales, since his air warrior career spanned aviation—in both British and independent India--almost from its birth right up and into the modern jet age.  He did some real flying and real killing, and some miraculous dodging of death, from what I did manage to gather.  Eventually, however, death did come, at home and in bed, and I as well as others in the neighborhood often miss and speak of the old soldier.    Mr. Singh had also, I might add, a great interest in the Indian art of reading palms, and I learned I would have been dead, which I know, from some event in the last few years--only I have survived, thank goodness, based on some other, needless to say, fortunate line.  Apparently, the key to India's success in their war with neighboring Pakistan in the sixties was bombing, on day one of the war, the building where slept all the best enemy pilots.  Their eggs in one basket, the rest was academic.  India won.  But today I am hearing about the poor gentleman’s latest medical adventure.  After laser surgery two years ago restored impaired vision, he has just recently been operated on for a detached retina.  I sympathize, now knowing I should take lots of Occuvites (eye vitamins) and pray.  He is indebted to publishers of large-print books, which he reads endlessly.  But within months, he is driving again, trading in his Jaguar for an Audi.  The main thing I learn today, however, is the story of Guru Nanak, the founder of the Sikh religion.  Apparently, after the invasion of India by the Moslem warrior-king Babur, wholesale "ethnic cleansing" of Hindus took place.  Not just for a few days or weeks, but to such an extent that their society was and continues to be totally disjointed and demoralized--backwards.  That is why much of their inner cities still look like something from the Middle Ages.  I heard of their Brahmin class being decimated in the degree that the light cotton thread--actually a string--which they earned and wore as a sign of their advanced status, was taken from them as they were killed.  All these threads were amassed and weighed and the killers paid by the pound.  It seems that hundreds of thousands of pounds thus represented the extent of Brahmin genocide.  All this around the time of Columbus.  Perhaps old Chris was lucky that he didn't find a way to India.  He would have walked in on a slaughter!  Anyway, Guru Nanak was determined to bring about peace and reconciliation, having been freed by Babur when a grinding wheel, to which he had been assigned to work in prison, miraculously turned around and around by itself.  Everyone recognized that he was a great holy man.  He roamed the earth in travels that formed the shape of a cross from east to west and south to north, learning about the ways of all the inhabitants.  One particularly famous story was set in Mecca, in Saudi Arabia, where the guru fell asleep with his feet pointing to the sacred rock of the Moslems.  One clergyman came and kicked him viciously, admonishing him not to point his feet toward God.  His reply, most gentle and polite, was a request for the priest kindly to pick up his feet and "point them to where God is not."  As the Moslem turned him in this direction and that, every time he looked, the feet were pointing at the sacred stone, as if the central symbol of Islamic belief were following the holy vibrations emanating from the limbs of the guru.  In this way and many others, Nanak made his reputation and today the Sikhs worship the sacred words of the sage contained in a large book, the Granit Sahib, which is opened every morning and actually put to bed each night in the Sikh temples around the world.    Mr. Singh tried once, he told me, to join the social circle of the church in front of which we sat.  But with his turban and beard, he related to me how he had felt rebuffed.  However, his feelings must have been noted somehow, because the elders suggested that he conduct a tour of his Temple for the benefit of the Church's adolescent Bible class.   They were told the history of the Sikh religion and fed traditional (vegetarian) Punjabi food.  It must have been an interesting adventure for them, being as American, meat-eating and middle class as you can get.  (But, then again, outside the temple, most Sikhs are non-vegetarian.)  I myself was in India in 1969 and am still not sure I have recovered from the cultural shock.  To paraphrase Mark Twain, the hottest summer I ever spent was a winter in New Delhi.  Like Twain, I watched an Indian woman attempt to beat a rock smooth with my undershirts.  After she was done, the neat parcel in a brown bag was nearly devoured by a cow as I sat sipping tea in a bazaar.  Bizarre.  The list is endless--the deadly poisonous lizard that shared my quarters and snacked on mosquitoes, thus protecting me from malaria; the scorpions that had a shoe fetish, making me very careful in the morning--or why Indians wear sandals.  The cops that rousted me for suspicion of gold smuggling when what I actually smuggled was hard-boiled eggs into a controlled "strict vegetarian area," the region around the ashrams of Rishikesh and Haridwar.  To me they were gold, for after a week of finding over-octaned chili in everything, I was a man dealing with starvation.  But the fasting was good for meditation, which I was studying with the Maharishi Mahesh Yogi.  The hungrier you were, up to a point, the easier and clearer was the "going within" experience.  And, of course, meat is a killer of meditation, or even of focusing on God.  But that's another story.  You're born in the West, you eat meat.  You didn't have any choice about it as a child, and then it's a habit when you grow up.    Yes, they have a nice term for it now--cultural shock--but India has always worked in mysterious ways.  What would New York, or for that matter, the United States, be like if everyone said-- instead of “Hey, howsit goin'?"--this:  "Your soul and mine are one!"?  That's the translation of Namaste, the most common daily greeting among Hindus on the sub-continent.  Or how about "Divine Peace be with you!"--Salaam Aleichem!--which the Moslems use?  But I guess cows would start wandering around in the streets if that happened.  Hey, would that be so bad?  Cows, instead of homeless and illegals!  A nasty case of hepatitis infected me when I returned from my world travels in 1969.  I was weak as a proverbial kitten for about two years afterward and, indeed, almost lost the will to live.  Vitamin shots, plus B vitamin capsules, plus the tincture of time—these were the only treatments.  Only gradually did my strength return, and never to the same level as before.  I could work hard, but not long.  Hepatitis is a horrible disease, probably brought on by absent-mindedly drinking tap water somewhere in Asia or the Middle East.  Raw clams in Sheepshead Bay might also have done the deed.  Or combinations of both, plus lousy food in foreign restaurants.  I paid a steep price for world travel in the sixties and seventies.  Otherwise, I would be inclined to wax more lyrical and rhapsodic about foreign lands and cultures.    However, as it is, I say, “God bless America!”  Kindly repeat this phrase daily and tell friends to do likewise.  More Sunnyside local color, if I may:  There's a grocery-deli across Skillman Avenue, run by a fellow named Ata (pronounced AH-tah) and his tiny Korean wife, Chun (which in her language means “one thousand”).  I’m always welcome to come in and “set a spell”, and I often do, especially if the weather is bad.  Ata is a good storekeeper, storyteller, source of credit in a pinch, and for me, being at that time on Social Security Disability, that pinch ran generally from the fifteenth of the month to the third of the next.  That's when my meditation was good.  The place is the Queens equivalent of the southern or Midwestern general store, the cracker barrel supplanted by racks of potato chips, cheese doodles and Drake's cake.  Mornings are meeting time for a more or less regular coterie, whom I call “the gang,” “the Sultans," or “the usual suspects."  Others refer to them as the "Skillman Mafia".  They're guys who happen to have, at least in the morning, some of that rare luxury of today--namely, time.  Time, at least, to linger over coffee and a donut or buttered roll, talking mostly about money, politics, women, or whatever, making lame jokes and trying to set the world right before their daily routine takes them hither and yon.  They are generally self-employed storekeepers, contractors, limo drivers and landlords, strong men with a natural conservative bent--the Sultans of Sunnyside, as it were.  Some are Romanian; some are Lebanese, others Pakistani.  Marcello—Mark-- and his energetic father are émigrés from Italy.  The father, old Joe, is worth about five million in cash and real estate, but he still dresses and looks like a struggling storekeeper, and is there every morning at nine o'clock, rain or shine, to open his grocery store.  A poster child for the European work ethic, he wouldn't know what to do if there wasn't work.  These are some of the more outgoing players in this human drama, and I mention them to distinguish them from the anonymous, less colorful folk who wander in all day and night, who actually are the backbone of Ata's business.  I see hundreds of them going in and out over time.  What Americans there are, that is, those whom Ata would call "your people" or, as I have come to call them, "indigenites"--usually have little to say.  The Spanish less; though, of course, among their own, they are voluble enough for twenty.  I can't see how anyone, living in a foreign country for more than a year, can't pick up the rudiments of pleasantries in that time.  They seem to be these rather tightly wound balls of suspicion and insularity.  This is a pity, since they're pretty jolly and ready with a joke and a laugh when they're in their own element.  They can't depart from their Spanish culture, at least not right away, but their mere presence here begs the question--what the heck good is the society from which they came?  But, almost to a man, or woman, they would rather create their own little Santo Domingo or Guatemala or Mexico and live in it here, wishing the gringo (American) or blanco (Whitey)--or anyone else for that matter--something less than good.  I recalled a line from my friend Morris Fitzpatrick’s excellent unpublished work, Coming to Naught in America—“No zoo in the world would put all the animals in one cage, but in Queens, they do.”  However, the drill is:  enter, say nothing, walk to the cooler, get the beer or milk or soda, name the cigarettes, pay, and walk out.  Hopefully there are no INS (now ICE) personnel to put an end to the artful dodge.  So they remain illegal worker bees, drones, for the most part.  Very few will joke or banter with the owner.  It's not a question of command of the language.  It's a matter of personality and character.  Or lack thereof.  Or maybe of royal blood.  Or the plain fact that they are here illegally and know it—there’s just no happy, secure feeling coming from deep within.  They are not of us.  They are fleeing sorrow but have not yet found joy.  They have, and are, a problem.  Those that have a modicum of life in them stand out like a sore thumb. They are contributors.  The others could be throwaways, extras in the great cinema vérité of life, cardboard caricatures of real people:  colorless, monotonous, uninteresting--just what Madison Avenue and all the high-powered consultants call them--consumers.  Ata makes fun of the people from his own part of the world, the Hindu and Moslem Indians, Pakistanis and Bangladeshis, the ones who only buy milk.  And if they can save four cents on a gallon they'll walk ten blocks out of their way in the rain to do it.  But they do amazing things with milk, and, of course, rice.  That's all the food they care about.  I can understand it, however.  It took my Armenian girlfriend ten years in this country to break down and try Cheerios for breakfast.  Her twin sister explained:  "If you put gun to my head I vood not eat.  Only my children got me to try because dey raised here.  Now vee like!"  Yeah, but it's like pulling teeth to find a glass of milk or an American newspaper in their house.  And definitely forget about what Americans call bread, the fluffy, sliced white stuff from aisle three in the supermarket.  They'll shop at a Turkish store—the people that massacred millions of their fellow Armenians-- for their familiar round loaf any day before they'll stock up on Grossinger's Rye or Wonder bread.   Revealing this and similar observations to Mr. Singh resulted in his explaining that his people were commissioned to be tolerant, to recognize God as being everywhere, and to be aware of  the danger of claiming a corner on that market, so to speak. "One is taught to be as tolerant as a tree, and lower than the straw in the street," he would tell me.  God is in everyone's heart, I conclude, though someone else is definitely in their heads.  I had many conversations with the elderly gentleman, and we shared a love of telling each other tales as much as we enjoyed the good fortune of great weather, whenever we chanced to experience it.  And of course the happy comfort of those benches in front of the church on a warm and sunny Skillman Avenue afternoon.  The two of us were in the same boat, in some respects, both of us with time on our hands. He too old to work, I disabled and barely up to the challenge of climbing stairs or walking a few blocks without incurring chest pains that won't easily go away.  We have a common problem--the problem of what in blazes to do all day.  Oh, of course, the time passes.  He does volunteer work at his Temple, chiefly making sure that the donations get counted properly and put in the bank.  I make the rounds of several small businesses in the neighborhood, stop in and chat with the owners about my stocks and theirs, check the market, peek at my portfolio on the Internet, read the New York Times and maybe the Post.  My brain and my cameras didn’t sit idle during this time.  I discovered I could contribute to the neighborhood by focusing on the little things I found wrong, shooting some pictures, and sending them around to the local papers and the offices of our local officials.  A little storefront graffiti here, a little dead tree about to come down on someone there, perhaps some illegal dumping or a pothole or sinkhole ready to swallow a car or person—anything I found that was grossly out of order.  Bringing it to people’s attention and getting it fixed earned me something of a reputation as a civic-minded “neighborhood guy.”  After helping some people out with unjust parking or Sanitation tickets, translating and explaining notices from the City and the Social Security Administration, the Workers’ Compensation Board, etc., I was being called “the Mayor of Skillman Avenue.”  So now I was a legitimate local “fixer,” giving back to society, not just getting.  Not a bad way to be, considering.  I also started a little work of glitzy prose and doggerel I’d taken to calling “Song of Long Island,” which I hoped would bring in some income.  It was an offshoot of my little tourist guide to the outer boroughs and on eastward.  Aimed at enticing well-educated young people away from Manhattan and encouraging them to respect the hinterland’s so-called “bedroom communities,” I thought it could possibly improve the quality of life all around.  Again, a little social activism—something new to me.  The increasingly steep rents, competition for space and the quality thereof, however, I found were doing the job for me in moving people to repopulate unsung areas like Woodside and Sunnyside, my grand new neighborhoods, along with Astoria, Jackson Heights, and other areas.  Even Long Island City, with its un-hip, unglamorous factory-district association, was becoming a sort of snob haven, now that certain waterfront residence projects are coming online.  As I say, time passed.  And all the while there were the legal battles in my head and in the various hearing rooms and courts, and while I could do very well without them, they gave some purpose and cohesion to my life.    But it's a strange groove to one who has always worked hard and kept busy, and taken physical and mental health for granted.  Russell Baker once said that old age isn't for sissies.  Neither is disability.  Living with it, is, essentially, the art of doing either not much or nothing, while still being a neighbor, friend, boyfriend, citizen and member of society.    When every day is like Sunday or a day off, there's little to distinguish one parcel of time from the rest.  I remembered a passage from Jack London’s Call of the Wild, describing sled dogs in the Yukon:  “There was nothing the matter with them except that they were dead tired.  It was not the dead-tiredness that comes through brief and excessive effort, from which recovery is a matter of hours; but it was the dead-tiredness that comes through the slow and prolonged strength drainage of months of toil.  There was no power of recuperation left, no reserve strength to call upon.  It had been all used, the last least bit of it.  Every muscle, every fibre, every cell, was tired, dead tired.”  I liked to start most days by turning over on my side and going back to sleep--until noon.  Ordinarily, I would feel sort of guilty about this, but I say, no: this little statement distinguishes me from the birds and animals, and working folks, who have to get up.  Anyway, e-commerce was here--maybe that would be my best hope of getting off welfare.  And God bless working folks.  By no means am I putting them down.  Where would I be without them?  I used to write songs, staying up long into the night, when a combination of solitude and the quiet night's natural "creative window" allowed for meaningful expression.  I actually used to leap out of bed at odd hours, eager to pounce on an inspiration or perceived melody that came with sleep and dreams.  But I couldn't look at a guitar or piano after my run-in with management.  I was deeply, deeply depressed.  To be turned off to song writing is truly to be pissed, and I am now thoroughly amazed at that feeling's pervasiveness and power in the dampening of the spirit and mind.  It is something I never could conceive of ever happening.  To this day I find it difficult to pick up a guitar.  It is almost repellent to think of singing.  I don't know what could have hurt me so bad as to bring about such a state.  What am I getting at?  Well, perhaps this is all to say that you can’t understand disability until you yourself are disabled.  This is the conclusion President Clinton came to when he injured his knee in a fall.  It is the one thing I admire about the man, aside from his obvious charm and political savvy.  He really did feel my pain.   Anyway, you don't have to be a member of daytime society to accomplish things in life.  How many times I pitied the poor sleeper as I emerged from a creative night and greeted the dawn with a new, exciting musical composition.  It was the same in college with a late typing and final editing of a good term paper.  Many things are like that--poetry, books, art, lifesaving surgery, winning law briefs.  Lotsa stuff.  Of course, now people are realizing that the speed and pace of New York—nay, the whole of Western society--are not really good for you.  Likewise with irregular sleeping patterns.  However, social and economic inertia dictates to everyone that they can't slow down.  So folks try to get their relaxation on the fly, by running or hitting the gym.  The other point I’d like to make is this:  you don't know how tired you are until you lose your job.  I've talked to people who have literally spent five years sleeping off the stress, and only gradually come out of it after then.  And some give up hope forever, just wishing to die.  Man has to be connected, and work is the big connection.  If these sound like the opening lines of the first chapter of “Early Retirement for Dummies,” then so be it.  They may be my only contribution to the body of work now surrounding this and other related social and health issues.  But an important issue it is.  If my experience and comments keep one laid-off or injured worker from harming or killing himself or herself, then I have done my duty.  Society is good here in the United States.  We have all kinds of safety nets—as well we should have.  In other countries, if relatives don't step in, people literally starve to death by the side of the road if they don't earn.  But I digress from my little portrait of Sunnyside.  After lunch, it's time to walk it off and walk around.  That usually means up to "The Boulevard".  If Queens Boulevard were in Paris, the people who spend their time wandering about as I and many others do would be charitably referred to as boulevardiers.  I imagine that class came about and evolved from the ranks of wounded veterans of France’s many wars, living on their pensions and allowances, content to simply stroll the boulevards, park their tired frames in an outdoor cafe, sip some vin ordinaire and check out the passing throng.  But here they are simply the borderline loafers, misfits, crackpots, ne’er-do-wells and oddballs that make up the non-workaday world of this part of the borough.  In a word, social refuse.  Blind Bartimaeus would have felt right at home here among these Barnum and Bailey sideshow rejects, as someone once called them.  If they have net spendable, they can be found in the vicinity of the betting parlor, OTB (for Off Track Betting)--or “Old Turf Bums”, depending on your perspective.  Otherwise, they people the donut dens and small coffee shops that dot the area, or the small park wedged into the whizzing traffic lanes that, depending on which way you are facing, east or west, either jettison the sizzling traffic from the city out toward Forest Hills and Jamaica, or slow it down on its way to the Fifty-Ninth Street Bridge and Mad-hattan.  Either way, if you survive getting across the lanes safely--and it’s not nicknamed the “Boulevard of Death” for nothing--there isn't much haven there.  Usually its denizens are soft-core homeless--that is, the kind that aren't totally and hopelessly repugnant.  But you do have to be prepared for the real wastrels, like the guy down the way who suddenly gets up and urinates on a tree.  Some are just tired seniors, lucky that they can still walk somewhere.   They may get a Social Security check, but if they're hanging out here, they are definitely indigent or near-indigent.  Add a liberal mix of Mexican or Central American day laborers who couldn't connect with a contractor, sprinkle in some forlorn Pakis and homesick Bangladeshis and Hindus and you've got the basic picture.  There are a few concrete chess tables, but I doubt anyone has ever enjoyed a game thereon since they were cemented there by some well-meaning city agency thirty or so years ago.   The benches are usually spattered with starling and pigeon dung, attesting to the lack of trees in other areas and the overabundance of un-neighborly slobs (or St. Francis-like saints, again, depending upon your perspective) that spend their money on birdseed and bread to feed these loathsome species.  The rat population is grateful, but not I or the people disgusted by the mess.  The hordes of pigeons waiting for their free food are a metaphor of this once-quiet, now overcrowded place, crammed with illegals just soaking up the American wages, the “benefits,” and who go on littering the streets, bringing down the neighborhood and fattening the landlords.  Their overall giveback to society is pretty well mirrored in the trash and filth and graffiti which the city labors to eradicate, mostly in vain.  Today a female junkie stops at one nearby bench, and I don't wait for her next act, which is usually pulling down her pants and pissing like a mud-stained mule.  While we’re on the subject of animals, human and regular, as well as bodily functions,  let me talk about dogs here.  The dog-owners make a doggie bathroom of the shady and leafy sidewalks of Sunnyside Gardens, actually one of the nicest neighborhoods in which I've lived.  It's a "concept" development from the twenties, based on an English model, with plenty of courtyards and trees and grass.  Most people take pride in their lovely gardens and keep up their property. But the stench and sight of dog waste attacking your nostrils and stomach and eyes even after a soaking, twenty-four hour July rain that otherwise clears the air makes you wonder:  "What kind of people are these?"  The representatives of ancient cultures that people Sunnyside often ask me the same basic question:  How does this American culture expect to last at the rate it's going?  I always dodge by awing them when I tell them of my ancient times, back in the fifties, usually 'way before they came, when everything was sweetness and light.  I confess hamming up my role with a certain pathos and reverential, nostalgic tone, but it gets them every time.  "Candy bars five cents?  Gasoline thirty cents?", they ask disbelievingly.  Yes, I nod, sadly and sagely.  "And telephone five cents.  And subway five cents.  And newspaper five cents."  Their jaws drop.  Always one of them will gasp.  (Until they realize that things, wages and prices, are still pretty much the same--just multiplied by ten.)    "And no gates on stores--and no one lock door."  I lapse into immigrant-speak.  Then Ata, the deli owner and coffee-pouring moderator of our meetings, always the comedian and himself Pakistani, (albeit an atypical example) will say, "And then come Pakistani and all prices go up and everyone stealing!"    After which, Valentin, the Romanian, will add, "Then Romanian hear and push Communist government--look, let us go.  Then we steal, too, and bring back!  So, no more Iron Curtain."  "Yes," Avik the Armenian will add.  "Vee go steal American kitchen curtain!"  "Yes," I say, to top the laughs, with appropriate arm gestures,  "Nineteen fifty-nine al-l-l locksmith, all security business tell U.S. Government:  'Bring Pakistani, yes, bring all devious crud--make work for us, make job--all steel gate and lock, alarm install!’”  And the whole deli-grocery would howl and we'd spill our coffee.  In essence, I tell them that the real America was gone before they stepped off the plane.  But there were better times--at least less frenzied, less rude, more peaceful and enjoyable ones.  Back when.  Just for fun, let me take you there.  