Pauline Mimms was born and raised on 195th Street and 110th Avenue in Hollis, Queens. She attended P.S. 118 from kindergarten through 2nd grade and then attended P.S. 131 also known as Abigail Adams in Jamaica. The schools she attended were comprised of a racially and ethnic heterogeneous student body. Pauline was different than people in her neighborhood because she was not in the ‘hood’ and was raised differently. She later attended Bayside High and then went onto the John Jay College of Criminal Justice. Ms. Mimms was one of the founding members of the RUSH productions. She handled the finances while famed hip-hop pioneer Kurtis Blow operated as the group DJ. Throughout the interview Pauline talks about the influence of hip-hop, the many people she has collaborated with, and various topics regarding the past, present, and future of hip-hop.

First Interview
00:00:02
Pauline Mimms talks about the musical figures that have influenced her in her career . She talks about Larry Smith’s famous song called “Street of Dreams” and sound engineer’s Elai Tubo’s R & B influence. Hip-hop is a combination of different music and it’s a life style.
00:02:07
James Brown was the god father of soul music, he changed how music were played and heard. Pauline also talks about the Jackson 5 and seeing their first concert in Madison Square Garden and their last concert together. Pauline grew up at the same time Michael Jackson and the Jackson5 were doing their thing. Pauline likes classical music because of its effect on the soothing to mind. 
00:05:00
DJ who used to be stars of the show were backups to the MCs and the MCs became known as rappers. Pauline gives Will smith an example of a rapper who was a story teller when he raps and Pauline talks about how nowadays rap music is all about sexuality and not respecting women and compares relationships during her days and nowadays. Some artists who used to be famous are nothing nowadays because of the bad choices that they made in their life.
00:10:00
Pauline studied public administration and law. She was like the free legal clinic in her neighborhood so when everyone had a question or concern they would go to her for help. Artists that wanted to perform on amateur night at the Apollo had to sign a management contracts before they were allowed on stage and talks about the time when she met Percy Sutton. Her favorite jazz record was called “Blue Onions”. 
00:12:12
Pauline went to John Jay College and loved theater. She would sneak into to watch the Negro ensemble company do “A soldier’s story”. She tried going into Broadway but her voice didn’t project. She loved being behind the scenes and learning about the history.

00:14:25
Pauline says that auto tune is the worst and talks about why she likes ITunes and Amazon. She says that Country music is R&B and talks about how Whitney Houston made the song “I’ll always love you” from Dolly Parton the best love story of all time. Pauline talks about the lack of freedom and respect that artist get from music industries and record labels.

00:18:23
Pauline was born and raised in 195th street and 110th avenue in Hollis, Queens. She went to P.S. 118 from kindergarten through 2nd grade and then went to Jamaica Estates School in 131. In the school she went there weren’t many black kids in the school and she had friends of different race. Pauline talks about the time when she saw Martin Luther King’s funeral on TV and didn’t know about him until when she was in 5th grade and she was taught about Martin Luther king in school. 
00:22:42
Pauline was different then people in her neighborhood because she was not in the hood and was raised differently. Pauline was told by people that she reminds her of a white women and a little girl telling her that she is too pretty to be black. Pauline talks about people questioning her blackness and talks about Eminem not becoming famous until he became this appropriating culture.
00:27:28
Pauline went to John Jay college of Criminal Justice and she went to Bayside High. Middle school was hard for her because after her brother left middle school she hanged out with seniors and older girls wanted to beat her because they were jealous of her. Her brother went to Francis Lewis high school and she would sneak into clubs when she was 12 because she loved dancing. Pauline talks about her college days where she was a part of the cheerleader group and her going to parties with her friends.
00:35:30
Pauline talks about the time while she was in a party and she sees Kurtis Blow was performing with Davy D as DJ. She also talks about RUN and what kind of a person he was.
00:37:26
Pauline describes where she got the name Puppet from and its reason.

00:39:24
Pauline talks about using bus passes to get around the city and reflects on a summer when she was a kid and she would go to Flushing Meadows Park with her friends and hanging around with her friends. Her mother never cursed and her father died. 
00:45:25
Pauline’s first job was a counselor in training at McQueen’s day camp when she was 12. She stopped doing it until she was 17 and worked at the agency. She worked in a park one summer and got certified lifeguard. At 19, she got a full time job running an operation at JFK airport from 2 to 10. 
00:49:16
Pauline talks about her first job in performing arts, theater and why she decided to pursue that career path. Her mother loved and supported her for what she was doing. She has worked with numerous artists and bands as an Artist development as she would call for what she was doing and managing plays and describes the pressure of the opening night of play.
00:56:25
Pauline describes how Rush productions started since she was one of the founding members alongside Russell Simmons and Kurtis Blow. She handled the finances and Kurtis was the DJ. Rush productions started in Hollis Ave; they did college parties and took Hip-Hop from the parks to the clubs.
01:02:00
Pauline talks about the relationship that she has with Kurtis Blow and her biggest accomplishment was getting her degree after her father died.









Second Interview 
00:00:17 
Pauline clarifies about the controversial time when she was on billboard magazine which claimed that she sought to satisfy viewers who want the most vicious, violent and sexy rap on the market for “Kickin It Live” show. Rap artists like Uncle Luke from Florida were banned because he was making all kinds of sexual records. Pauline talks about the time when she was interviewed on the Geto boys who were real and raw. In the interview on the Geto boys she said they have the right to express the violence that they saw coming from Houston, Texas and people need to hear their stories but the people who interviewed her turned the interview into headlining that she was an advocate of sexual violence.
00:09:40
Pauline says that rap nowadays is very degrading to women, young people and doesn’t believe that is real hip-hop except for some rappers like Nas and Kendrick Lamar who are story tellers and they don’t degrade women. Pauline praises ITunes because artists have more control over their music rather than record labels.
00:13:02
Pauline loved the 1990’s because she worked with different artists. Pauline talks about reality TV which shows fighting, drama and says that it is a bad reflection on their community. Pauline gives examples of things that has changed that she doesn’t like.
00:19:36
Pauline thinks the term “sell-out” is unfair and ridiculous and gives example of a person who she knew was worth 300 million dollars who profited a lot from people by taking their ideas and talents. She questions if that person was a sell-out. Pauline also talks about the influence of money and fame especially in groups because as the money starts flowing the group starts to separate because they make one person shine a little brighter than the rest. 
00:22:15
Pauline talks about why she loves the Wu Tang Clan and the song “You’re all I need” which she says is a classic R&B.
00:26:23
Pauline says that drugs almost killed hip-hop and talks about the influence of drugs in hip-hop. She also talks about famous artists like Prince and Michael Jackson who died using drugs.

00:28:55
Pauline talks about the influence of Heroin and cocaine in her neighborhood back in the day. When she came back to Queens Hollis to visit while living in Brooklyn she was stunned at what has happened to her neighborhood, the people who she knew doing drugs and many people getting aids and going to jail. 
00:39:05
Pauline tells her story when she first went to a club in Times Square with her friend. Pauline and her family would mostly go to Radio city and ice skating close to the lighting of Christmas tree. Pauline talks about how Giuliani affected her work in criminal justice and Pauline wanting to affect young people positively. She also talks about the deaths of various famous musicians such as prince, Michael Jackson, Whitney Houston and Marvin Gaye. 
00:47:07
Pauline met Tupac when he was shooting his movie Juice while Pauline was covering the premier for New Jack City. Pauline describes how Tupac was like when she met him and says that we don’t need a statue of Tupac in America because having a statue doesn’t mean anything as long as we know his work and music. 
00:55:06
Pauline talks about Davey D who was a DJ for Kurtis blow and praises him. Pauline would love a museum on hip-hop rather than a statue. 
00:59:45
Pauline heard rap for the first time in the Bronx.

