Antonio Moore was born in Alabama and then moved to NYC when he was seven years old. First he lived in Queens, moved to Brooklyn, and then back to Queens - settling in South Ozone Park. Antonio and his family were middle class. As a child he loved listening to different genres of music and was interested in photography. Young Antonio made pocket money by having parties in his basement, and later at the park [edit: add park name if known]. Antonio and his friend Divine called themselves the Cipher Sound and learned to mix music using turntables. After learning how to mix, they had parties and started to grow as a group. Divine left the group and Antonio became the leader. Throughout the interview Antonio talks about his life as a DJ, music producer, and collaborator with different people. Mr. Moore also gives his viewpoints on hip-hop, rap and other related topics.    00:00:10 Antonio came to New York from Alabama when he was a child. In Alabama there weren’t many activities for young Antonio aside from playing outside the house. The house was similar to a farm with cows and chickens. Antonio talks about the difference between living in New York and in Alabama. 00:02:30 Antonio talks about how music was a major part of his life. He also talks about his family move between the Queens and Brooklyn. 00:03:39 Antonio talks about coming back to Queens and the differences between the living in South Jamaica Queens and Brooklyn - for example living in South Jamaica Queens was similar to the south because they had houses.  00:04:20 Antonio talks about his family being the third black families to move in South Ozone. He later discusses what his parents did for work while living in Queens. 00:05:24 Antonio describes the different types of music he and his family listened to such as R&B, Latin music and jazz. Antonio talks about his experience while in elementary school and his interest in photography and music. 00:07:24 Antonio talks about the activities he participated in after school and how he considered himself a nerd. He had aspirations of becoming Scientist and Astronaut at some point when he was in school.  00:08:30 Antonio talks about his favorite record store Mikes Record Shop on Sutphin Boulevard in Jamaica, and how he snuck into clubs to watch DJs play music when he was a teenager. He lists the names of DJs that he enjoyed watching perform. 00:10:30 Mr. Moore discusses the very large crowds at these venues.  Drug dealers made money after they paid Antonio money to play music at the park and they would deal drugs to people. Antonio talks about other ways he made money while DJ’ing.  00:12:23 Antonio talks about making money when he was a young teenager by having parties in his basement. 00:13:50 Antonio talks about how he was influenced by older people and learned to hook up sounds from them. 00:14:30 Antonio talks about how the musical group Cipher Sounds formed. He also describes using the turntables during their performances. 00:17:06 Antonio talks about how his group was able to afford the expensive equipment by having parties. Antonio and his friends distributed flyers throughout high schools. Antonio also learned to mix with Divine who was a member of the group. 00:19:55 Antonio talks about where he obtained new records of songs to play from, where he got European disco tunes from, and being a big martial arts fan. 00:22:19 Antonio recalls an incident when he had a party with the 5 Percenters and how there was occasional violence that stopped the parties.  00:24:12 Antonio talks about disco music bringing together people of different races. He also recalls people smoking during class and his brother being a drug dealer. 00:25:25 Antonio was a really good DJ. He also won an award for best artist on 1972 in Gerts store in Queens where there had an art exhibition. He was known to for illustrating and designing his event fliers. 00:27:57 Ronald Flemings becomes Cipher sounds manager. Divine decided to leave Cipher Sounds because he didn’t like that Ronald was making more money than they were. Antonio talks about meeting Michael Goody who lived in their neighborhood and had big sound systems. 00:32:25 Antonio meets MC Spanky who moved to Queens from the Bronx. Ronald splits the money with Antonio and Toni talks about the stuff Spanky and Ronald did for him. One time Spanky taught Antonio’s brother and cousins how to rap and they named themselves “Fabulous 5 MC’s”. 00:36:07 Antonio talks about playing in Fantasia which was a club located on Merrick Boulevard. He also talks about promoting their parties at Fantasia, and how Cipher Sounds was the house DJ’s there for about a month in 1977 before they decided to move on. After that Fantasia hired rival DJ’s Infinity Machine. There was friendly rivalry between Infinity Machine and Cipher Sounds. 00:39:00 Antonio talks about his mentors “The Disco Twins” and how he became the leader of Cipher Sounds since Divine left the group. Antonio wanted to do things Divine didn’t wanted to do. He talks about making “Acid Plate” records – where records were repressed with stretched out longer beats, and he would sell them at Mike’s Record Shop. 00:43:25 Antonio talks about meeting Russell Simmons. Antonio met Russell across the street from the Central Library, Jamaica Queens. Everyone wanted to meet Russell – he had this thing called Rush Productions. Russell booked Cipher Sounds a show at Hotel Diplomat in Manhattan. Russell brought all the boroughs together. He also talks about how Infinity Machine being one step behind Cipher Sounds and playing at Fantasia again and getting paid more this time. People would make tapes at the parties. 00:46:00 Antonio Talks about the time there was a blackout in NYC. Just before the Blackout, Antonio was in front of his girlfriend’s house at that time, talking to her parents. He says lights started flickering, people running around saying the Russians are attacking because it was during the cold war. 00:48:15 Antonio talks about during 1980’s when he got a job at Wall Street. Antonio got into the record business, buying his first drum machine and produced his first record. 00:53:33 Antonio discusses why he left Cipher Sounds and started a new musical group named Artz & Kraftz with his co-workers.  00:58:15 Antonio talks about selling Artz & Kraftz records, producing as well as doing demos for other artists. 01:02:50 Antonio talks about his group Artz & Kraftz signing a contract with Motown Records because they offered more money than other record labels such as Warner Brothers, Columbia, MCA, and Uptown and it was the label that his mom and dad loved listening to.  01:05:15 Antonio talks about crafting songs for the movie House Party with Kid & Play, and meeting his idols. (Jimmy Jam, Terry Lewis, and Full Force, etc.) 01:07:54 Antonio made a million dollar at the age 28 from working on various musical projects. 01:09:30 Antonio talks about the time when he met the NWA at Los Angeles. He recalls regretting not working with NWA because he thought they were crazy at that time because NWA were making records against the police. 01:11:15 Antonio talks about wanting to work with movies. He also talks about how at that time in his career he did not want to be in a music group but wanted to just produce music. 01:14:20 Antonio Moore talks about Puffy who was Kurt Woodley’s intern. Kurt Woodley was managing the Artz & Kraftz, Mary J. Blige, Father MC, and Jeff Redd at Uptown Records. He recalls instances where Puffy was given credit for the things Kurt Woodley did and Antonio talks about the Wu-Tang which was a hip-hop group from New York City. 01:18:07 Antonio talks about working with Soul Train and the BET awards in 1989 or 1990. He was producing Jeff Redd, when Jeff Redd had to do a performance and they didn’t have enough dancers so Antonio does a dance on the stage.   01:20:19 Antonio talks about working with reality shows now and if it was easier or harder to get into the industry. Everyone he knew from back in the day is making demos for reality shows now. 01:23:30 Antonio compares the way artist promoted their music today and how it was different during Toni’s days. Toni also talks about the how women are represented in music videos during the 1980’s and 1990’s  Antonio Moore Cipher Interview 2 00:00:05 Antonio gives his opinion on how to successfully create a musical fan base using his own experiences as a DJ, producer, and club promoter as an example.  00:02:35 Antonio discusses how traditional American record labels did not understand early hip-hop and rap music. In response rappers had to create their own record label such as Russell Simmons, Jay Z and other rappers. 00:03:41 Antonio was offered a record label contract by Russell Simmons but he did not take it. He talks about his music relationship with Motown and his experience with Columbia Records after leaving Motown. 00:05:01 Antonio describes the type of music that was playing when he did House Party which was a movie he produced music for. He later discusses the split between his group Artz & Kraftz and Columbia Records. 00: 05:56 Antonio talks about the music change in Jamaica, Queens. He gives examples of how the area has changed and claims that it isn’t like how it used to be and hip-hop being commercialized.   00:08:30 Antonio talks about who he would like to work with now, the projects that he’s worked on, and states that hip-hop artists should have their own musical hall of fame instead of being put in the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame. 00:10:14 Antonio gives advice to listeners, his experience when he was young and new artists using old tapes.                