TW: Okay so where are you from exactly in Queens? NM: I’m from originally from Hollis, Queens, NY. I grew up on Woodhall & 1-95. I actually grew up in like a building type of thing. It wasn’t like a regular home. It was very crowded but me and my mother and my sister made the best of it. And then we actually moved and we actually moved to Linden in St. Albans in Queens. So we been living there for over 10 years now if I’m not mistaken and I been living at Hollis for like— was about 15 years or so. TW: Okay so and moving to Albany do you see a difference between where you lived at before and where you live at now? NM: Definitely, definitely cuz I was happy I finally got my own room. I finally ended up getting my own room. Before it was very crowded me my mom and my sister was sleeping on one bed only and from then I actually liked it because now I can get you know my own little bit of privacy. Basically more privacy, more of doing my own thing now that I’m getting older and I’m of age so it's actually pretty good, I actually like it. TW: You mentioned your mom and your sister so do you only have one sibling? NM: No I actually have more than— I have two sisters and one brother. My older sister is the oldest, I'm the second oldest, and my brother is the third oldest and my little sister is the baby. TW: [laughs] So how is your family Dynamics? like sibling wise and your Mom wise are you guys close? are you distant? NM: Ehhhh It’s in between. You know everybody has situations where sometimes they don't like talking to their mom or they can't deal with their mom— sometimes it gets irritating but we make the best of it, we do our best You know my sister does her own thing now that she's about to have three kids. There's a third one on the way. so you know it's more of family trying to make the best of it and what we're doing and work and stuff like that— taking care of each other and just doing a lot of things on our own basically. TW: So what school did you go to? Growing up what schools did you go to? NM: All right basically my very first school— it wasn't really like a school it was like a Learning Center type of thing. It Was called Lifeline. Then as I growed up I started going to PS 118. TW: Wow! I did not think that was a real school from Hey Arnold. NM: [laughs] Yeah I actually went to PS 118 a lot of people heard of it but it's actually a really good school like they have a lot of activities for younger kids to do and get into so that's why that was my favorite school. Then I went to— my middle school was 192 it's called Renaissance Middle School that school was— it was okay because it was more drama but I'm not really a mixy person, I don't really like to be around drama. Drama is not for me, it’s not my thing and then High School it was way crazier. High School was not like what I expected it.  I always thought high school was going to be like High School Musical on TV or something when you have your own locker and stuff and it didn't turn out that way but I made the best of it and I actually left then I went to Delaware Valley Job Corps and that's where I received my high school diploma at 17. and then I graduated at 17. All my school years have been crazy even though I was kind of bad a little [laughs]. TW: What made High School so different than what you thought? Was it the kids? Was it the teachers? Was it just the school? NM:  The school the kids, I'll say everything because girl if I tell you stories [laughs] these stories are crazy there were fights everywhere. Teachers fighting with students, you'd be surprised it was a lot going in that school and then we came to find out in our junior or sophomore year they was trying to build another school inside the school already and the school itself is already bad so it's like why would you guys want to put another school in here and it's already hectic in here and you can't control some of these kids already so its like what's the point?  But— so we did something like boycotting but it didn't work out, they still ended up building the second school but now it actually calmed down I went back to go visit and actually calmed down now. It's not that much students, it's different kids, they actually have more activities then they did when I was going there. I had— I was actually on the track team. I did track and field and that was about it. That was like the only type of sports I did, other than that I didn't do no other sports. The only sport I know was track and field. I was really more into sports and trying to get my high school diploma and get up out of there. TW: So do you think the location of the school or the area of the school is what made it so bad? NM: No. I'll basically say it's because of where other kids are coming from. Because in the area it was more... I don't want to seem racist or anything but it was more white people so it wasn't really— I can't really say it was the community because it was more elderly people living over there. It was older people with families and stuff like that. They were living there it was more of a white neighborhood so I'll say it was basically you know how we made it. Basically the kids how they made it, how they made it seem. It was like some of the kids didn't know how to act you know it was causing a lot of trouble but other than that it calmed down after a while like Junior year everybody realized arguments and fights are petty which I don't understand. It should’ve been like that from the jump but you know some people grow up differently or some people you know take things differently so I can't really speak for other people but I can speak for myself. TW: So tell me about Job Corps how was that? The transition from High School to Job Corps? NM: Job Corps... It was fun1 I can't even lie, it was actually fun because we learned a lot of different things and me I took up office administration so I know how to type 47 words per minute, I got my certificate for word excel and Powerpoint so basically Microsoft period.  I also received a certificate for a lot of things. I can’t even—it's not even coming to my mind of what I received but it was really fun. And the new people who I got to meet. I had an input family and they all from Jersey let me just say that. They all from Jersey but they mad cool and I love them! And I really liked— we actually really treated each other like we was family like if one fight or one bout to get into a fight we all just were all coming. Pick with one we all coming for you. TW: So it was like a real family dynamic? NM: A real— yes definitely and it actually taught you a lot like alot of life learned lessons because Job Corps wasn’t like regular school where you can leave and get food and you know stuff like that. We had to make it and really had to like in our words “Hustle” for the stuff that we need and you know it's all about hustle and how you want it. We don't mean hustle like that but we meet hustle like you know. TW: You need to survive! NM: Yeah it's basically like survival skills and that's one thing I liked about Job Corps because it actually taught you a lot. It might not seem like that and at first you know while you're there but when you start to grow up and start to realize this was actually a life lesson you know. TW: Soo umm, after doing Job Corps what did you do? NM: After doing Job Corps I actually started my first retail job and my first retail job was Old Navy. TW: Did you like that or do you like that if you still work there? NM: No I actually don't work there anymore. I love— I work for my little brother. My little brother has autism so I basically work for him. If you see— But he's very good you wouldn't even think that he has autism to be honest with you. But you know  we make the best of it because that's family so basically I do like home health aide work where I can work with him or I can work with other kids. That's what I'm doing as of right now. TW: I kinda can relate because I do the same thing right now. It's just like a different type of feeling I think when you help them out. Okay so what is— you told me your current occupation so what are your occupational goals for the future? Is this something you want to do for the rest of your life? Is there other things you want to venture out of? NM: Home health aide work no. Home health aide work definitely not! I really like it's always been my dream since I was a little girl is to be an RN. That is the main goal I really want to achieve. I was going to school for medical assistant but I had to leave, I had to drop out because I couldn't work and go to school at the same time. My work schedule was interfering with my school schedule so it's really— it was really really hard for me and I couldn't juggle everything at one time. But I made the best of it until the end but unfortunately I wasn't able to receive my degree which I'm very sad about but you know it's never too late to do anything. TW: Exactly!I was going to say you still have time. NM: I definitely still have time especially being 20 years old. TW: Yes you have a lot of time [laughs]. NM: [laughs] Yeah I have a lot of time to do stuff so I'm starting low very low which is the home health aide and then I'm going to start building myself up and I actually— as of right now as a little side job a little hobby I like to do is cooking. I actually have an event today at 8 o'clock TW: Wow! I wish I didn't have to work. I would have been like let me come through. Wow! NM: [laughs] I definitely have an event today at 8 o'clock. TW: So what is your event focused on? NM: Basically my cooking business I'm going to be catering and stuff like that selling plates $10 a plate but as of today my cousin surprisingly so nice of her to book me for her event and it's a surprise party for her boyfriend and she actually booked me to cook. TW: Wow! That's amazing! NM: I'm making a lot of things. TW: So being that you want to start this cooking business where do you see this business going? What type of food would you sell? Where do you want to be located at?  Did you think about those things? NM: Definitely, I got those down pack! I am going to cook soul food, American food, and me I'm from the Caribbean so I'm definitely going to have like Caribbean food. I already figured out— I already have a logo and stuff like that so I'm basically set. It's just that I have to set up a Instagram, a booking page and you know all of this at one time but I know I can do it and I know I can achieve my goals as long as I put my mind to things that I want to do I know I'm going to do it and I think that goes for everybody too. TW: You are absolutely right. Okay, Wow you kind of like answered my questions that I didn't even ask you [laughs] okay so are you religious? NM: Definitely. I'm a Christian. (baby crying) TW: Okay are there many religious practices in your community that you live in now? NM: Yes. Down the block where I live it’s Jehovah Witness. It's crazy because in Elementary School PS 118 my teacher— My fifth grade teacher is a Jehovah Witness and from 5th grade to now my teacher still comes to my house she still communicates but like I really love her. That teacher is never going anywhere. That teacher will be my favorite teacher forever.  I love that lady. She does everything for me. There was times where I spent the night at her house. She basically was like a second mother figure to me and even though she didn't believe in— You know Jehovah Witness don’t believe in a lot of things but she she respected it, she never put her religion on people or anything like that so that's one thing I liked about her. TW: You met that teacher in PS 118? NM: Yup! TW: Okay. The school that you said was your favorite? NM: Yup! TW: [laughs]That’s funny. Umm so what forms of transportation do you guys use in Queens? NM: We have trains, we have LIRs, we have umm buses. It's a lot of buses let me just say that especially in the Queens area it’s a lot of buses. But we— Some people drive, I can't really say a lot of people but mainly living in the city. New York period is like a lot of people take public transportation. TW: So how is the neighborhood you live in now? Is it Urban? Is it the suburbs? Is it in between? NM: In between. Because it has people coming from different boroughs. A lot of people from different boroughs live where I live now surprisingly.  But mainly where I live it's more culture wise. The reasons why I said it's more culture is because we have a lot. We have Asian people, we have Chinese people, we have Jamaicans. It's a lot of Jamaicans, it’s a lot of— there's a little bit of white people too, you know Hispanics so it's very cultured where I live and a lot of people that came from these different countries are living over here. TW: So being that this community you live in now is so diverse do you take the time to learn about other cultures or get into the stuff that they get into? Or no? NM: Yeah my grandfather he was from Panama so I'm definitely mixed with Jamaican and Panamanian so I know about other cultures. I have friends that come from everywhere and I have a lot of Caribbean friends, Spanish friends so I'm a very cultured person and I’m willing to try different things. TW: Wow. That’s— I'm glad you said that. So have any Landscapes and your neighborhood changed over time? Was there any parks or youth buildings that were destroyed or changed? Were there any gentrification going on? NM: So when I first moved here it was one Park that they changed up now. They have like— it's still there they never took it down but they're trying to make changes. TW: What's the name of the park? Do you know? NM: We call it Cambria Heights Park. TW: Okay. NM: It's not far from where I live. It's probably like a good umm 4 blocks away. But they build it like rebuilding it but they don't want to take it down but they're trying to add different things. It's very big though. They also have a big soccer field and baseball field. They also have a lot of basketball courts too. TW: So do you think this creates a sense of like sports in the community? Are you guys big on sports? High school sports? Athletes? And stuff like that being that you have all these things accessible? NM: Yeah, definitely. Yeah we have a lot in Queens. The sports are mainly taking place I'll say for me, in my opinion it's basketball. The reason why is because a lot of these young boys that's living in Queens are doing more things when they're playing basketball. They spend hours in the park, they go after school and play in school gyms. And all you see is basketballs everywhere you go. There's always somebody playing basketball. We do sometimes do a little soccer but to me in my opinion, I can't speak for everybody else, I feel like soccer is more of a cultural thing and more for people that lives in the countries and stuff. TW: Did you do any other sports besides track and field? NM: (baby crying)I did, but it didn't work out too much [laughs]. I did volleyball. I tried out for volleyball but that didn't work out too well. I like volleyball and I always like the volleyball but it didn't work out for me. I realized that I like to run but it's messed up because I can't really do track and field that well because I suffer from asthma so I can't really play that much. TW: So what is the biggest changes you've seen in Queens or the neighborhood you live in specifically? If any. NM: I will say from where I used to live which is Hollis, umm Hollis changed dramatically. Because it's a lot going on in Hollis. I’ve lost a lot of— Basically Hollis is like— It use to be a lot going on now, it's just like very quiet and dull and nobody really goes around there anymore. It's like basically a lot of people forgot about Hollis and you know it's so crazy a lot of these old rappers and rappers now come from Queens and they're from Hollis but they don’t— It really died down. It's not really what it used to be back then when I was growing up. I remember going outside to play and stuff and I realized a lot of kids don't do that now in the Summertime. summertime me and my sister I used to watch my sister play Double Dutch and I used to jump double dutch. It's not the same as what it used to be. TW: Do you think it's the Generation though?  Because I know my little sister, her— I feel like she doesn't really go outside either whereas I never wanted to stay in the house when I was her age. I always wanted to be outside as well as like even a little things like it snows and you go around and people pay you to shovel but kids don't even do that nowadays. NM: Yeah and I really do think it is a generation because now my little brothers and sisters they want to play, they just go right on their tablets or their computers.  I remember when I was going up, I might be 20 but around my age, my generation age group, we had electronics but it wasn't big as it is. I'm still a 90s kid so I'm a old soul at heart so it's like if I want to play then I'm going to go outside. Sometimes I don't want to be on my phone and I just want to go outside. Sometimes I just be like— It's like when you're at a family function or anything outside in the Summertime you bring back all the old games. It’s like “let's play double dutch, somebody go get an old wires or something.” but now it's not like that anymore. Everybody's just like really growing up and the generation now is more into their electronics than what we was doing back then. TW: I feel like we weren’t really big on electronics at all NM: Right! It was in style. Yes I might still be a baby being 20 but when I was growing up it wasn't it really wasn't that style but now it's like now... TW: It's the trend definitely. NM: It's just crazy like everybody has to have the updated phone. Me personally if I can have the iPhone 8 plus forever I would do it because it's like why am I going to keep going to the Apple Store or going to my phone store and changing my phone to the same thing to do the same thing over and over and over again. It makes no sense! TW: Wow. I agree. I totally agree with that. So have you seen any gentrification going on in Queens? In any neighborhood that you lived in? Do you feel like they came in And try to make an urban area a suburban area and have it appeal to like the middle class? NM: You know what’s so crazy? My area is weird because it's like Urban / Suburban.It's like the suburbs but it's like Urban in between, it's like really weird. Where I live you go closer to Long Island so its mixed. It's like really a lot of mixed people but where I live specifically it's more like the suburbs but it's Urban at the same time. So it's like really weird to describe it I don't know how to describe it but it's like that. TW: It sounds like gentrification, it does. That's exactly what it sounds like but I'm not sure I don't know I don't live there [laughs]. I don't know so we're just going to go off whatever you say. I've never been to Queens before, so if I was to go to Queens what could you tell me about Queens that you think I should know? Where should I go? Where should I eat? Where can I party at? NM: Don't ever tell them where you're from! [laughs] TW: [laughs] Why? Why not? NM: Queens is those people where we don't care as long as you don't be sitting here trying to think you're better than us then we fine [laughs]. Queens people, let me tell you, if they ask you where you're from and you say Jersey or even in the same Borough like Brooklyn or Bronx or something, they be like “eww those areas are trash” Or “those are not it” Like “nobody even heard of jersey” You know stuff like that. But I’ll definitely tell you, well I can't recommend you the city because everybody goes to the city. To me the city is boring. TW: And that's why I'm saying Queens I've never been in Queens so where should I go in Queens and eat and party and stuff like that [laughs]? NM: Girl!! Let me tell you [laughs]… So Queens wise if you want to party you have to go around I think it’s Stine or Stein. I think it’s Steinway that’s closer to— it's around Forest Hills and stuff or going towards Astoria which is not far. They have a lot, I mean every block is club club club club club club club literally like one block is 4 clubs on one block and across the street it's the same thing. And if you keep going its clubs everywhere so I recommend over there. TW: Okay eating? What do yall— Is y'all known for something specifically you know how Manhattan is like pizza and stuff like that so is there anything specific y'all eat? NM: Pizza wise if you ever come to Queens I will suggest you go to Margaritas which is located on Jamaica Avenue in Queens. That's the best pizza. Restaurant wise even though it's in a city, there's one in Queens to its Dallas BBQ's which I think everybody heard of that. TW: Yeah I've been there before. NM: Yeah So that's like nothing new. But other restaurants we have are basically the regular: Olive Garden, Red Lobster. We have— There is however in New York period a restaurant I don't know if you have heard of it. It's located in Brooklyn and it's called footprints. TW: No I have not. What kind of food in stuff is it? NM: It's Caribbean food. It's really good and they're known for their rasta pasta. it's really good. If you go there you're going to like it. Just in advance it's a little expensive but it's worth your money. It's definitely worth your money though, you're going to like it. TW: Another question, being that your area is so diverse do you guys have like cultural stores for other cultures or like little poppy stores or...? NM: Yup! [laughs] No doubt about that one. we have a lot of those. And sometimes you can just be walking up Jamaica Avenue and it's a lot of Africans because you know there's African braiding places. You can go on Jamaica Avenue and they help make the dresses. You know the little dresses that they be wearing and stuff that they be wearing with the hats? TW: Their dashikis and stuff like that? NM: Yes! They will definitely make it for you and on Jamaica Avenue too they have Indians with the little dresses that they wear. It's very cultured so if you're into those type of cultures or you want to learn about them, you can definitely buy the clothes. There's clothes and books and a lot of things you can buy to learn about the cultures and stuff. TW: Okay that's cool. That's very cool. What do you think Queens is known for? NM: Rappers! TW: Okay. NM: I'm sorry [laughs] but hands down New York period is known for rappers. A lot of these rappers that's in— that’s out now are from New York and they’re from each borough and that's how I know New York is doing the thing right now! But Queens I'm sorry Queens have a lot of better rappers. We have this saying in queens— if you come to Queens you might hear it all the time. If we are arguing with another borough or another state or anything we have this saying called “Queens get the money” [laughs] So basically it's like a lot of these uprising rappers, basketball players, and all this stuff are coming from Queens and you'd be surprised and you wouldn't even think— I just found out Kelly Price is from Queens. TW: Oh wow! I didn’t know that either. NM: So it was just like very surprising for me because I'm like— And she's from south side. So it's like you know some of these big artists that you would never know is from Queens and it's crazy and that's one thing I like about it because we’re very known for music. To me I feel like we're known for our music. TW: Okay, so rappers and having the best rappers in music. And I think it's kind of accurate too. Honestly I agree [laughs], I really agree because there— a lot of these rappers especially females they like rep Queens, the males they rep Queens. It's always Queens or Brooklyn honestly. And it's always more so Queens. NM: Exactly. Those two boroughs are the main boroughs for rappers and singers and all this other stuff. I'm just going to say this I'm team Barb [laughs]. I am team Barbie. I am a Nicki fan all the way! No Cardi over here! Sorry! [laughs] I'm always going to be a Barb and I grew up around Nicki. Nicki is just like that person that been holding it down since... TW: Since Warning and Itty Bitty Piggy NM: Yeah like you get what— you see it , you get the memo. You already know the vibes okay! [laughs] I don't even need to explain. As long as you know that's fine with me [laughs]. (31:19) TW: Do you— Does the rappers or like you know the celebrities that come from Queens, do they ever come back or give back or dealt— do anything of that nature? NM: It's crazy you say that, they definitely do. Uhh Where is it?— I think it's by Guy R Brewer, and bas— I think it’s— Yeah! Around here there's this little community garden space and it was from 50 Cent. He comes back every— let me not say every time but he do whenever, whenever he's available he always come back and that's one thing I can say about 50. Umm Nicki? I just seen Nicki in November like the day before Thanksgiving. She did the turkey giveaway. TW: Oh wow! That's what's up. And see some of these things that you're saying the media aren’t— isn't publicizing so I would never know these things. NM: Yeah sometimes an artist will go on their Instagram or go on their social media and promote it because— but then sometimes you don't see it. And that's one thing I don't like sometimes. They don't show these things to make it seem like “Oh these rappers don't know how to give back” and some of them do know how to give back so that's one thing— that’s why I think everybody in Queens will forever love 50 Cent and Nicki Minaj because they always come back. Nicki Minaj she always comes back but you know she's so busy she's like the biggestrap female right now and she be busy so I can't really say she come back all the time but when it's time to come back to her area she's definitely going to come back and she's definitely going to come and she’s definitely going to show love. That's no doubt about that. TW: Okay so for you personally is Queens where your heart is? If so why? If not What place would you want to live at that you think would— you could live the rest of your life? And why as well? NM: It's Queens all day! [laughs] All day! TW: I heard the conviction in your voice! [laughs] NM: It's Queens all day period! That's it! Nothing else. I grew up in Queens so its like I was born and raised. Sometimes I travel back and forth to Brooklyn, let me not lie, but Brooklyn is not really my environment. TW: So what about Queens makes it like you? Makes it so homey? NM: The lingo that we use, the community, knowing everybody because Queens is— it might seem big but it's small and a lot of people we know each other. Some of us grew up around each other. I remember looking at my own friend, I never knew that we we're at the same school. I seen in a picture and I'm like “oh she looks familiar” Then I had to realize it's the same girl I've been chilling with for years and I never knew it. And then I bought the picture to her and she was like “so we knew each other since diapers?” And that's one thing I like about Queens because you never know. It just makes it so homey that everybody's cool with each other [laugh]. TW: It sounds like a great environment. I need to clearly visit Queens. NM:  Yeah. You do [laughs]. TW: Are you into like art and stuff there? I know you guys have like— It’s a Museum I want to go to but I forget the name of it but I know you guys have museums and stuff. NM: Probably the Museum of Natural History if I'm not mistaken. TW: Probably [laughs]. NM: Probably the one you talkin about. Ehh I'm tired of that museum [laughs]. TW: [laughs]Are there any other museums? NM: Umm there is, there is, there is. There's one in Brooklyn and that's like the only other one I know and there's one in Manhattan too. I forgot both names but I can look it up and I'll can send you the info so whenever you decide to come out here you can visit all three of those Museums. TW: Okay and I know like Brooklyn has the zoo so do you guys have anything of that nature in Queens? NM: Yeah. Queens they definitely do have a zoo. There's one in Queens, there's one in Brooklyn, and there's one in the Bronx. I don't know about Manhattan. Manhattan is more like city. TW: I feel like they don't have room for a zoo [laughs]. NM: Yeah Manhattan is too crowded so I doubt that they're going to ever build a museum there (she meant to say zoo).  Their museum in Manhattan is the sex museum and I don't think that's really a museum for kids. TW: It’s not at all! I've been there so it's definitely not. NM: So I don't really consider it a museum for me. TW: Have you ever been to the Museum of Illusions? I'm not sure where that's at either but I've seen like pictures and things. NM: I've never been there but I've heard about it and living in New York you hear about a lot of places. I've heard about that place but I've never been there. I might go now that you brought it up. TW: It looks pretty cool! It's like a lot of mirrors [laughs] and illusions so it looks cool.  Okay I have one last question for you. Where do you see yourself in 5 years? And where do you see yourself in 10 years? What's your five and 10-year plan? NM: Umm 5 years hmm hopefully— maybe by then— let me just say this, probably in two years hopefully my business can get up there. TW: Claim it girl! You got to claim it! NM: It’s like that’s something— I always wanted to start my own business. Me, I'm the type of person where I like to be my own boss sometimes and I feel like that should be everybody's mindset is to be their own boss so in five years I’m praying for my business to get up there.  By 10 years or in between 5 to 10 years I'm getting my degree, I'm working, doing what I really want to do which is being a registered nurse and that's about it. TW: I know I said I had one last question but I'm sorry, I have a couple more [laughs]. As you're talkin I started to think of more things to ask you. NM: [laughs] It’s okay. TW: So you want to be a RN? Do you want to work in Queens at a hospital? Do you want to work at a nursing home? Do you work at school? Where do you want to work? NM: I want to work in a hospital. Definitely a hospital because it's more busy and keeps you— even though a nursing home keeps you busy too but it's not as busy as a hospital. I like going to hospitals and seeing nurses know what to say, know what to do, know the codes. Like “let's get this person to this room” I want to be that and my friend, she think she's a doctor because she watches Grey's Anatomy too much so she be feeling like she is a doctor by watching these shows. TW: I'm guilty of that too [laughs]. NM: She’s like— She would post on Facebook “did you know that this causes a tumor” and I'm just like you just watch Grey's Anatomy too much [laughs] and it just needs to be cut. I don't see what's so great about it, I've never watched it but maybe imma try to watch it one day. TW: I think you being— wanting to be a nurse, I think you would really enjoy Grey’s Anatomy. Even though it's not about nurses I think you'll really enjoy it. I don't want— I don’t like—even like the health field and I love Grey's Anatomy, like love it. I'm so scared of blood but I will suck it up for Grey's Anatomy! For real. Is there like a specific department in the hospital you would want to work? Like with kids? Or cancer patients? Or things of that nature? Or just you want to be a jack of all trades? NM: I would like to— If I could I would definitely be all. TW: You can! You definitely can! NM: But In my mind I really want to deal with babies. I love dealing with babies, I love kids surprisingly. And it's messed up because sometimes I don't like watching kids because they get on my nerves [laughs] but it's like what am I going to do without them. And I love my—I think of kids as my siblings because I love my siblings so much so it's just like I think of them as being my brothers and sisters or I pretend like they're my own kids like I birthed them so that’s the field I want to do but if I can do all of them then shoot give me all of them with no problem. TW: Right! Get all those coins! [laughs] Do you want kids of your own? NM: Yup! Definitely, I want a boy. TW: That's it just one? NM: Just one! I know there’s going to be— Even though everybody might say one but for right now one. One is good. Definitely one. One is fine, I'm good with one. That's it I don't need anymore to keep it going [laughs]. TW: Finally, this is really my last question I promise [both laughs]. Do you give back to  Queens at anyway? If so how? If not, tell me how you think you should start to give back to Queens. NM: As of right now no. But I really want to you know— I really want to start doing that. I want to do something like— in a way to help older people that’s struggling like single moms and stuff. The only reason why is because there's times where I see my mom struggle but she makes the best of it and sometimes it’s good to help them out because they can't deal with all of it on their own. So sometimes it’s good to give back and see what you can help with, see what you can do for them. As long as it's a little bit of something you know it makes them happy, whatever it is. TW: Something is always better than nothing. And I feel like single moms especially, they go so hard all the time so they appreciate any little thing that you do for them. I feel like being a mom is one of the hardest jobs there is to do. NM: But they make the best of it. TW: Exactly and they rarely complain about having to make the best about it. NM: Exactly! TW: Well I want to thank you so much for doing this for me and I truly appreciate it. NM: You’re welcome. 