Close friends Bess Debetham and Joyce Moy interview each other about their experiences in Queens and as part of the General Assembly, led by Queens Borough President Helen Marshall. They discuss the journeys that led them to live in Queens and the positions they take on matters of the community that they are passionate about. Susan Tanenbaum also adds her own inquiries about inspiring instances of the General Assembly. 00:00:49 Joyce came to Queens when she got married and had her first home in Bayside. Her grandfather had a house and business in Jackson Heights and one of her uncles was born in Flushing.   00:01:48 Joyce has a tendency to advocate, which she realized when she did a lot of work for the community as an attorney. When she worked at Queens College and other CUNY schools, she advocated for students, community organizations, and outreach for marginalized people. 00:07:04 The people who joined the Queens General Assembly were very open and wanted to hear. Joyce commends the borough president Helen Marshall for seeing the need to create a dialogue that would nurture cultural understanding. 00:09:46 Joyce finds the Festival of Lights to be particularly memorable because lights are common to all cultures.  00:13:32 She feels that the borough president is a visionary for meeting the community that she represented and understanding them. She credits Helen MarshallÕs background in education for this.  00:14:38 Joyce felt skeptical at the earlier meetings of the General Assembly, but as time went on, she felt that people were more open than the usual Òfeel-goodÓ organization.  00:019:38 She was grateful to participate in the General Assembly and decided to get involved even though she was skeptical because the Asian voice was not being heard or was being stereotyped.  00:22:12 When asked about her presentation of being an American, Joyce replied that she wanted people to understand how you could simultaneously be a part of the US and not be a part of the country as well. She also wanted people to hear how others that werenÕt paid attention to contribute to their community. How the society sees and treats people determines whether they will remain outsiders or integrate into the community. 00:23:34 The Chinese Exclusion Act passed in 1882 made it impossible for Chinese people to become citizens, whether or not they were born in the US. This was overturned in court in 1943, but the growth of the entire Chinese community had already been stunted. The generations before JoyceÕs felt that they werenÕt wanted and did not participate in civic duties. 00:25:41 If Joyce were to leave any major legacy, it would be for all young people to learn about the history of this country and what it has meant to marginalize groups of people in order to prevent it from happening again. 00:28:11 Joyce is the executive director of the Asian American Asian Research Institute at the City University of New York. She created a team that spoke English, Spanish, Korean, and three dialects of Chinese when she realized that minority and immigrant businesses were not getting the attention they needed. 00:30:00 Joyce begins interviewing Bess Debetham. 00:30:30 Bess came to New York from the state of Alabama right out of high school to Huntington, Long Island, where her first cousin was living. She discovered that her best friend whom he graduated high school with was living in Rockaway. Bess came to Queens on the LIRR and found that she had family living there. She loved Queens, but was disappointed that she couldnÕt get the job she wanted without any experience. She eventually found another job and got married and stayed in Queens.  00:32:22 Community activism means more to Bess than her regular job because she has been able to accomplish more in activism. She didnÕt want to gain attention, but felt forced to act in order to protect and look out for others.  00:35:56 Bess feels that when things are made better in a community, everyone benefits and find that they have more in common. She gets a high from doing something for others more than getting money from a job. 00:35:18 When Bess takes a position, sheÕs always thinking about the next person. When she came to the General Assembly, she had certain prejudices, but didnÕt want to hold on to them after hearing Joyce speak at the Assembly. SheÕs now learned to remind others not to slander an ethnic group. She shares a story about overhearing a conversation at LaGuardia Airport about another ethnic group and getting the speaker to stop.   00:39:48 BessÕs most memorable experiences of the General Assembly were listening to Joyce discuss what it means to be an American and the Festival of Lights. 00:42:30 Bess would like to get younger people more involved and have the older people be mentors. She believes in telling young individuals that they can be anything they want to be, but they must get an education.  00:49:19 Bess believes it is so critical that children be explained to why adults suggest certain things. She doesnÕt believe black children are exposed to the different facts of life and as many cultural things as they should be. She blames the adults of the black community for not taking the time to mentor the youth and expose them to professions other than rapping.  00:56:31 Bess remembers the Queens Borough president making the statement that diversity is one of their greatest resources. By joining the General Assembly, Bess became a resource.  00:59:00 Susan Tanenbaum begins interviewing Bess. 00:59:52 Bess recalls what it was in JoyceÕs presentation about being an American that affected her so much. Americans didnÕt accept Joyce because she was Chinese and when she went to China, they didnÕt accept her because she was too American. Bess saw herself in this because her she feels she is an American, but is not accepted. She compares her growing up on a farm where her father grew their food because they couldnÕt afford anything in the store to JoyceÕs mother making sure everyone was fed when they had very little rice.  01:03:53 As part of Board 13, Bess works for the land use, public safety and transportation committees. She is also part of a civic organization called Federated Blocks of Laurelton founded in 1972. She doesnÕt consider herself a leader, but rather an advocate for change. She part of the Eastern Queens Alliance, which is fighting the Kennedy Airport on extending a runway further into the community, which would require removing hundreds of trees, whose roots prevent flooding. 01:10:10 Many Jewish families moved into the Cambria Heights area. This Cambria Heights community felt that they were mistreated. [This demographic change was prompted by the interment of the Lubavitcher Rebbe in nearby Montefiore Cemetery]. 01:17:38 Bess says if we talk about how we feel, we will discover others feel the same way.  01:19:00 Bess wanted to see how she would grow due to the General Assembly. She considered herself and the other members seeds that were being planted and referred to the them as a garden.     