Al Musaffi worked at the WorldÕs Fair while also studying nearby at Queens College as an undergraduate. During the 1964 season he worked at the New York State Pavilion, and in 1965 at the Chrysler Pavilion. He worked 6 days a week and earned $120 per week. Al Musaffi worked with other students from all over the city, and met people from across the country and the world.   00:00:01 Al Musaffi worked at NY State Pavilion while studying full-time as a junior at Queens College. He was a host, telling visitors basic information about the pavilion and the Fair. He got the job through the placement bureau at Queens College, and worked a 4-10pm shift six days a week. The job was delightful because he got to meet people from all over, as well as seeing diverse performances. The floor of the Pavilion was built by Texaco Ð Flushing was initially left off the map.  00:05:01 Performances happened inside the tent on a large stage. During the course of day there could 25 to 30 different groups performing. The performances were free and totally open to the public, and the schedule of performances was posted. Everything was very glamorous. Visited the top of the Pavilion, from where you could see all five boroughs. He sometimes hung out at the Fair on Friday or Saturday. During the summer of 1965 he worked at the Chrysler Pavilion, where he met college students from across the city. There were about 30 people on each shift, and it was a very social environment. He made $120 a week, which was more than her earned after graduating at his first job.   00:10:37 Al Musaffi volunteers on the restoration of the New York State Pavilion, as part of the $5 million grant to return the Pavilion to a useable state. During the 2014 Anniversary festival there were tours of the Pavilion. The New York State Pavilion allowed him to see performance groups, at the Chrysler Pavilion he met a diverse set of his peers and he was 21 so he could get alcohol. He was the right age, and in the right place, to have the great experience of working at the WorldÕs Fair.  