The American Mid-East Leadership Network originally aimed to empower our youth in Astoria.  However since we opened our doors for services we’ve had different kinds of people come through here because the services are needed.    We realized since the economy was hit badly we focused on financial education, financial literacy, job readiness, resume-writing, job-hunting - things that can really put food on the table.  A lot of the recent immigrants do not understand the job market in the US.  They do not know that there are procedures; you look for a job, you send a letter and your resume, you have an interview - you have to be prepared.  For each of the stages you have to be prepared.  In the Middle East you tend to get a job by calling up and saying “my uncle told me to call you, give me a job.”  That’s changing, but for most people who come here to use our services come here with zero knowledge about how to job-hunt here in the US.  And of course most don’t speak English at all.  We do ESL classes three times a week.  I’m a lawyer.  I was Legal Counsel for a bunch of non-profits.  After 9/11 I realized that Arab youth are very lost.  There is serious conflict between the two personalities – Middle East and USA.  So we started with empowering these youth.  However in 2002 I was in Jordan and a friend of mine who works with the American embassy said can you give a lecture about Arabs in America after 9/11.  So I went to one of the prominent schools there and gave a lecture to about 80 students, high school kids, and I realized how misinformed they were about us; the same way that the general mid-western American society is misinformed about the Middle East.  A lot of middle easterners in the Middle East think that here we live in cages. That after 9/11 people are following us with rifles and want to hunt us and jail us.  I started thinking about how that could change.  So in 2003 I started American Mid-East Leadership network.  One of its programs is to build mutual understanding between the Middle East and America.    We did a program with Syria - Grassroots diplomacy.  The idea of that is for people to learn first-hand, away from the influences of politicians or the media, away from those who are partial and let them see for themselves the reality.  We did it 5 years ago in Syria.  Last year I went to Libya and unfortunately we were meant to be there May 22nd we were supposed to fly there but with all that’s going on unfortunately that didn’t happen.  However, we have created a new program called "My Galilee" which will educate Americans about the Arab Muslim and Christian population in Israel.    We’re going there on July 31- Aug 13.  We’re trying to educate people – university level students.  We try to diversify the group as much as possible.  This group I have a white guy, a Hispanic, oriental, a white girl, Colombian, Pakistani.  I’m trying to show that America is not a homogeneous society.  We are a multi-cultural beautiful fabric.  You sit in this café and every table has a different ethnicity.  It’s so gorgeously diverse in Queens and Astoria.  Here in Astoria the Middle Eastern community is predominantly North African: Moroccan, Egyptian.  Not many Palestinians.   I was born in Palestine, in Nazareth, my beloved city.  That’s why we’re taking people to the Galilee we’re going to focus on Nazareth.   I came to New York about 13 years ago.  I lived in San Diego for a while, then London before that for six years, before that in Belgium.  So I’ve been living in different places!  But I hope that New York is my final destination.  It’s just a unique place.  It’s different to any other place that I’ve travelled and I’ve been a lot of places.  This is home for me.  When the plane lands at JFK I feel that I’m home.   Egyptian revolution on Steinway: Absolutely there was homesickness. It was such an amazing spirit to be on Steinway that time.  One of my staff members speaks Spanish.  So I said record something in Spanish regarding what’s happening.  It’s so amazing to be part of this history.   Since November I’d been to Egypt, Tunisia, Libya and Syria.  Some of my friends were joking that I had something to do with it! They said Rami, what did you do.  I said that I was privileged and lucky to visit those places just before the revolution.  I love Tunisia and Libya.  You couldn’t sense that something was going to happen.  When I was in Libya and Syria I was a part of an official delegation.    Libya is one of those mysterious countries that for the general American public, is not open for tourism.  So for me to go there and spend a week…I met with very high  level people in the government – you can’t get the green light from the universities, they’d do the program but you have to go through the government.  I worked for about a year prior to going there in building the project.   We hope that the people will be strong enough and rebuild the countries, inshallah.   I go twice a year to Nazareth.  I love my hometown.  Being Christian myself, which is a minority I always try to be connected.  My mom is there, my family is there.  It’s important to connect, not to disconnect.  I’m so proud that I’m taking a group of students to my hometown to start an initiative between students here and there.  I’m very excited about that more than anything else because I’m taking them home.  It has a different feeling.  They’re going to have a blast; they’re going to learn a lot.  The programs I build they are educational programs so they’re not going to be wasting time, they do their homework.  The main misconception is that we actually exist.  Many people do not know that there are Arabs living in Israel.  They don’t know.  And what’s important to me is to educate the American public that there are Arabs in Israel - there are 1.4 million Arabs, of which 1.5% are Christian.    I don’t think that the Israeli government or the American government or anybody who works on the peace process is giving the Palestinians living in Israel justice.  They can really do a lot but we were never given an opportunity.  Even educating Arab-Americans about the Palestinian population of Israel.  The moment they hear Israeli they kind of shut down and want to hear nothing about it.  I say no, ‘you’re going to listen to me; you have to listen to me.” Most challenging is fundraising - funding, funding and funding.  I rely on individuals.  I have a small staff and we’re so focused on delivering the work.  I’m always looking to collaborate with other orgs in Astoria – to join efforts, to do something together.    The Arab community is not the easiest community to work with.  Look what’s happening in Egypt and elsewhere.  These people lived under repression for much too long.  So when they come here, the challenge is to educate them more than anything else.  When I advise them on free health insurance with United Healthcare or insurance plus I say “I’m going to give you free health insurance”.  They way “why, why and run away.”  When you do a seminar and you don’t charge a nickel they get scared. So the education process has been difficult. So taking into account what they went through, where they’re coming from.   A lot of Arabs come from a tribal society so when they come some place they need to know somebody.  They’ll say “I know somebody from my town, or village, or city who moved to America 30 years ago - I’m going to look him up.  Or “I’m your neighbor’s 15th cousin, and they will open the door, they will help.”  Some are tired and just want a better life.  Some come because they won the green card lottery.   A guy from Morocco he was working for Mercedes and making good money.  He was married and with a kid and very financially stable.  Then he won the lottery.  Suddenly ‘America’ controlled his way on thinking.  And he moved to the US.  He regretted it because he’s working as a waiter somewhere.  We tried to help him with work, but again, language challenges, navigating the system etc.  It’s managing disappointment as much as anything.  A lot of people are unhappy politically, socially, so there’s the draw of the green card.  When I get people jobs, or to get their papers or to go to school, that makes me happy.  Also, getting people together: we promoted the QUILL event [Queens in Love with Literature event on June 18 2011, “Cairo Connections: One City, Many Voices”], found the location etc.  At the same day there was a music event, our event, celebrating Egyptian dancing at the Queens public library on Broadway – dancing, shaking it and having fun.  That same day at Queen’s public library on 21st street we had an event about education.    That makes me happy, the result.  Taking a group to visit the holy land.  Something tangible.  When I see the smile on people’s faces.   We also host in our office a group of Egyptian intellectuals who met on Twitter and we give them our office space to meet and talk.  We try as much as possible to be inclusive.  I wish we had more people and resources.   The climate for Arab-Americans is getting better but we still need to do more work.   One problem is that our community is very divisive and territorial within itself.  You know, I can say that Moroccans might not like the Egyptians; the Egyptians might not like the Palestinians etc.  There’s a myth about the fact that we are all Arabs - we are not.  We are 22 different nations, 22 different cultures, we speak the same language but we are very different.  So of course that Egyptian will take care of his interests. When I met with the Egyptian counsel general I offered to do a program with Egypt.  He did not welcome the idea.  I was disappointed for a diplomat to be that way.  But every community protects its own interest.  One point I’m very careful about is we’re very secular.  We are not influenced by any religion.  We welcome everybody, and zero tolerance for racism.  We’re also starting Arabic classes in Astoria, for 10 people.  A few years ago Mayor Bloomberg announced the week of July 9-16 is the Arab heritage week of New York.  Last year we did the first Arab Heritage Week Festival of Astoria on Athens Square.  About 2000 people came.  There was music and dance and vendors and blah blah.  It was WOW.  This year we were supposed to have it July 19 but we decided to do it later in the year, after Ramadan.  It will be in September.    We face a bit of resistance even from our community.  There are people who have a conservative view of things so putting together music and dance on the street isn’t very appropriate.  My answer to them is “welcome to America.”  We are not provocative, people are not dancing nude.  It’s very cultural, very respectful.  I think thank you for your opinion, but Queens is the most diverse place in the United States, and we need to celebrate our culture and heritage in this city.   Athens Square is a private NGO (George who’s the chairman of Athens Square).  When I first came here I really liked the community of Astoria.  I love the Greeks, the Latins, the Russians, and the Brazilians.  It’s really nice.  In Manhattan, especially when you work there, it’s very robotic.  Here you can still sit and chill and enjoy things and walk from one place to another.  And there’s no need to go to Manhattan.  There are restaurants, coffee shops, bars, schools.  Close to Grand Central, Trioboro Bridge, BQE I mean it’s a great location.  Everything is accessible.    Hopefully in the summer when I come back I’ll bring my mom; I miss them, it’s nice to have family nearby.    In the Middle East the concept of privacy is almost non-existent.  Here people like their space more.  I love the Middle East but I would not live there. They do it with love.  They want to help you, feed you, take care of you, however it can suffocate you!  We have a beautiful, hospitable, warm culture, very different to here.  Here there’s a great culture too, just different.   I moved out of the Middle East when I was 17.  Now I’m 38.  All of my adult life has been abroad.  We have a very big house in Nazareth, the family.   Astoria is like a bottle of wine.  The older it gets the better it gets.  I really think so.  On May something we had the National Arab American Service Day.  We brought about 100 volunteers and cleaned Astoria Park.  Peter Vallone Junior came, and lots of organizations came.     Grand Café is great: good value for your buck, food is great, inside and outside, nice crowd, good location.  When I have people coming from out of town I say Grand Café has a Manhattan feel.  When I talk about Astoria I talk with passion.  