00:00:38  He is from Ireland, County Cavan. Tony’s family grew up in a farm and his father came from a family of farmers. His grandparents had six children. His grandfather’s sister took in Tony’s father when he was six and he started living on the family farm. Tony’s father later inherited the farm. 00:04:25  When it was time for his father’s aunt to make a will she gave a lot of the farms vegetation over the foreign mission of Africa. So when his father got married and his mother came to live at the farm she got tons of bills, due to that they weren’t in a good financial position.  00:06:27  He was the middle child, his older brother frank lived in Toronto, Canada, and so did his sister.  His brother Shawn remained in Ireland. Terri, his youngest brother moved to America 37 years ago.      00:07:09  He left home very young. He didn’t want to continue his schooling so he left school. He left to Dublin, after that he went to London for a year. In 1972 his older brother frank was getting married and wanted him to be his best man, so he went to Toronto for a while.  At this time he was 18. 00:08:15  He stayed in Toronto because he wanted to see more of North America. It was very dull and quiet in Ireland back in the 50’s, 60’s there was barely any water or electricity in the house. All they had was a radio; after the television came out they would go and watch television in their neighbors’ houses.  00:09:25  When he left home which was in the 60’s that’s when The Beetles came out, Chubby Checkers, and rock and roll; and he felt like the world was finally opening up. So he left to London so he could explore.  He left from Dublin the next day, and found his sister’s house after 3 days. Next he went to Toronto but he didn’t enjoy it much.  Then he went to Detroit and then Buffalo, finally he came to New York. The first place he saw in New York was Jackson heights, because the people he was traveling with wanted to see an Irish football game, in the movie theater.  00:14:13  He met his wife on the second day in New York; they were at a bar in Roosevelt Avenue which was filled with Irish people. He saw her standing near the jukebox and it was “love at first sight.” She was 20 he was 21. 00:15:26  He went back to Buffalo and gathered up his belongings, he worked at a bar over there and the guy he worked for, released him early, and he drove with another guy who was also coming to New York City. The guy he worked for in Buffalo had lived in NY for many years due to which he was connected to a lot of bars and restaurants. So he told tony to see Mikan and he said for him to come back when he was settled. So he called and got the job as a bartender.  00:18:15  After 35 years he went back to Ireland. He realized that he had put his Irish life on hold. When he left Ireland he didn’t realize he would emigrate. But when he went back he realized everything he was missing out on, and that if he had stayed he would have this entirely different life style. 00:26:31  As a child he learnt only basic Gaelic because his father didn’t think it would be of much use. He spoke English at home. 00:28:54  His family wasn’t very aware of the war that was going on in Germany; they were all living a happy life and not many people were around. There was barely any communication.  00:30:03  They cut off ties with a lot of their cousins for no reason at all; they would still communicate with a few.  00:31:29  He lived on Broadway in Jackson heights, and 76th street, near Roosevelt Avenue. He became a super of a building. He had two kids, a boy and girl. Who are in their early forties now and have their own children.  00:32:23  He bought a bar for a cheap price during a really bad recession; within the first week he realized it was a bad idea. After two years he decided to sell it and lost about 15-20 thousand dollars. HIs brother-in-law bought a house, and then wanted to sell the house and move to long island; he was selling it for 35 thousand. They only gave him 30,000, and he gave his brother-in-law a check for 5,000 with no money in the bank, and they started living in the house, and they paid mortgage. They lived there for six seven years.  00:35:39  When they had their second child, they went to church after many years, though he wasn’t that into it. But things have changed since then, he’s more spiritual now. Eight years into his marriage, he stopped drinking and never drank again, though he was a bartender again for four years. Then he started a construction business in 1984. 00:40:20  He found out he needed no qualifications for being a contractor, so he started spreading word that he was a contractor. He went to an auction and got a ConEd truck.  He and another person who wanted to start a business started it together.  00:46:43  He sent his eldest son to Ireland because he was having trouble figuring out what to do here, he met a girl and now they have two children and live there. Right after his son married the family bought a building in Pennsylvania; and they lived in Pennsylvania and NY. The building had a restaurant downstairs, which was run by his son, but he didn’t have ambition for it, so he went back to Ireland, and they sold it. His daughter stayed in America, and she married an Irish guy and they have two children.  00:51:59  When his son started asking him questions about their faith, that’s when he realized he had to start paying more attention to it, and learn more. After that he became strong in his faith, and he saw everything from a different point of view, even Ireland.  00:56:35  His father died at 66, after getting sick here in America. They took him back in a casket in the bottom of the plane.  He’s mother lived for 17 years after that; he’d bring her here for a visit every other year. She always wanted to work so she worked here for a while; she took care or an older lady. She got tired of it after a few weeks. 01:03:25  In the beginning of their marriage they’d do simple things like go for a drive or go upstate, or go shopping then have lunch, and they enjoyed it like that. As they progressed financially they started going to places like Disneyland or Florida. 