My name is Olga Oukacine; I am the director of the Ra’ces Astoria program.  I work with elderly people.    Ra’ces was founded in 1978 and its goal is to help elderly people, in particular Latinos.  I began as a volunteer.  And I really liked it.  I learned a lot, and the first position that came up, I got it.  And from there IÕve carried on learning, learning.    I came to New York in 1974.  I first went to Corona.   There are people here from Dominican Republic, Ecuador, Colombia, Peru, Bolivia, and El Salvador.  I feel good when IÕm helping someone.  Some of the participants can be a little bit difficult.  In the sense that they think things should be just how they want them to be.  Strong characters.   People learn about the Center because participants spread the word to new participants.  Also, when people call 311 and they donÕt speak good English, almost always they pass them on to here or the center we have in Corona.  Some of the participants come every day.  IÕve been living in Astoria for seven years.  I like it.  ItÕs very peaceful.  The attendance here has gone down recently because of the bad climate, but generally attendance here is very good, around 80 people a day.  ThereÕs one center in Corona, and four in Brooklyn.  I began as a volunteer in Corona.   From Corona they sent me to Brooklyn, and I was there a year.  I came to work in this center in 1999.  There are participants of 92, 93 years old; the thing the participants like doing most is dancing, Merengue, salsaÉmost of them when they come here, they have depression, and here that goes away, because itÕs a family-like environment.   Some of them donÕt have family, others yes.  Some are living with their family and have had problems with the wife, the son, the husband of their daughter, different kinds of problems but at least when they are here they forget them; itÕs a family environment, they feel like they are at home.  We do parties for Christmas, etc., with presents and everything.   The center if funded by the NYC Department for the Ageing.   