Born in Mexico, Adelina Palacios has lived in Queens since she came to the United States after marrying her husband. She wanted very much to work when she arrived in the United States. Adelina soon become very involved in her children’s school activities. She narrates this interview from the point of someone who has immigrated to the United States.
  
00:00:19 	Adelina Palacios studied in Mexico for Executive Secretary and also a bit of accounting. After completing her studies she worked as Accounting auxiliary in the company of beers known as "Corona." She was highly regarded there, she lived quiet and had the love of a good family. One day she met who would be later her husband through the sister of him who worked with her. He, who had already been in this country, was to collect his sister and both of them offered to take her to her house, which she accepted. From that moment they (Adelina and her future husband) began to date and then came the courtship that lasted three years. Adelina was aware that he wanted to come to New York where he had his siblings, but she had no intentions of coming. They felt in love so much that they got married and suddenly he asked her: "why don't we go to New York? We could see how is going to us, if we do not like it we can come back." That was the start. She arranged her tourist visa and when he came, she followed him after three months. So began the story here: arrived to the brothers of his husband’s house. She came as all immigrant does: without knowing for what is really coming, without knowing what she was going to find. First thing she did was to study English for understanding people: "being here I wanted to go to school." Only after studying English she was thought to be suitable for looking for a job, and it was one near the house where she lived. 
 
00:03:29 	Eight years after of being here, she got pregnant and seven months after her first son was born, she became pregnant again. However Adelina continued working during pregnancy until her children were born. His mother came from Mexico for looking after the children while she worked, but at three in the afternoon she came out of the work, she was going to pick them up from school and taking charge of them. After eating they were going to the library.
 
00:04:20 	Adelina did not know so much English in that time. She took a simple course in the school. The tasks of the children were not simple for her because she did not speak English. In the library there were teachers who helped her children with their tasks. Back at home, children watched TV awhile and went to sleep early... Adelina worked in a bakery, she went to her work at six in the morning, and she got out at three in the afternoon. Her mother gave breakfast to the children and took them to the school after which she was going to New York, to meet some people and to make their own occupations. Her mother went to a Senior Center where she taught weaving to people. That was her routine until the children came to Middle School. Adelina was always investigating the operation of the school and the activities that her children had there. 
 
00:07:00 	Adelina liked to learn and to know about all things... Since the children were in third of primary she was interested in belonging to the Association of parents of family, and a good day she was appointed Treasurer. With her friend, that was the President, she went to the meetings of the Department of education. She went to conferences and meetings to which very few parents of family went. She points out that if one is not aware of the children and of the performance that they have, they will not have success. By that, now that her children are in College she has its rewards... In the conferences of parents at School, many of them came out crying because they knew that their children they sent all days to the School did not attend... Adelina was informed about the performance of the children. Once, she learned that one of her sons was lowering the notes despite having perfect attendance, but it was a funny case of two children and their mothers that had the same names. The issue was arranged because the children were after that identify by their IDs and not by their names. 
 
00:12:10 	Although the advisors advised not register the children so far away from their houses, her son wanted to go to a school in Manhattan. There the Principal explained, in an open house, starting of the course, how functioned the School and that by being a small School he knew to all the children by their names: he was an authority, but he was also a friend of the children. There were in that place much respect and a good environment. Adelina liked it very much that she managed the transfer of his other son to the same school. It was easier for her, since this time, handle all things related with her children and their school. 
 
00: 14:20 	Adelina’s eldest son decided to go to a College in Long Island and, after that, to one in Manhattan to study Psychology. The other child went to a College Fair where a lady, that was giving the applications for private schools, told her that her son could go to one of these with a scholarship since Adelina had no money. The son filled the application for the NYU, passed the interview and passed the exam, then they gave him 80% of the expenses and the rest the child would have to look at other institutions, which he did successfully. Now he studies at the Business School through the Education opportunity Program. 
 
00:16:00 	Adelina came to this country that she never imagined to arrive, that was not very difficult for her, but neither was very easy. Raising her children where they are now has been a challenge for her. Her husband worked in a pizzeria from 10 am to 11 pm, and by that time she was in charge of her children… She has said that only after eight years of being here she thought she was prepared to engender children. Since a young age she knew that she had to prepare for that moment, because it is not a as to say "I brought them,  now I will let them grow up as they can", but it is a constant concern for caring them, educating them, making them good persons... and now they have succeeded. That is the best gift for her.
 
00:17:40 	When Adelina came, visits to Mexico were very sporadic, at the beginning, and when they began to arrange the papers it was no much time at all. In that period died her husband’s father and mother, almost one after another, and he could not go to none of those two events. Her husband felt in a strong depression. Those were very difficult times that had to be overcame gradually. Adelina told her husband that if he wanted to go to Mexico when his parents died, they would know how fix that later. He did not want to go because he knew that his parents would think the same way than him. 
 
00:19:08 	Adelina always was helping in the Association of parents of family and she had already two years going at a College for studying English. She is repeating her studies: first the GED and then she will seek a best work. One day her children told her: "you already did what you had to make by us, now we will support you, because never is too late for having an education, so now you must reach your dreams." 
 
00: 21:17 	Adelina found in this country that to learn English was the most difficult thing, and also how to move in the transport system. After five years she adapted to their new way of life... In Mexico she had a comfortable life, although she was not a wealthy woman. She walked to the suit, the shoes with the sachet. In Mexico she was impeccably but everything here was different, the change of her life was very hard... Here the work was different... everything was. Her first work was in a deli that sold food: she had to wash the ovens for the roasted chickens and there she cut and burned her hands constantly. For her to leave her family in Mexico was very difficult: she missed them as well as she also missed the work that she had. Today she can say that everything was worth because her children have responded very well. But, although the years have passed she miss her place, her villages, her family, her traditions... 
 
00:23:52 	She says that this is a fabulous country. Everyone who comes here and wake up can achieve very nice things.
 
00:24:06, 	Today Adelina is working in a shop where she sells fruits and vegetables, there she has met many people of all races, of different professions, and like that. She has always lived in this neighborhood of Queens where everyone is known; she always went to her children’s school and participated, where she spook with all the world: the police, the person that was in charge of the cleaning, the Principal, the teachers... And she thinks that that is perhaps a way of not missing her own country. 
 
00:25:37 	For Adelina, this his is the third year that she goes to York College to study English. She is recalling what she studied in her country. She has the support of her children. They say: "you did it before for us, now we have to be proud of what you're going to do." She always liked to be Teacher Assistant because she likes school, children and all that. 
 
00:27:02 	Adelina’s husband does not have sequels of the depression... but only when he is sad. The day before this interview was done, her husband received bad news because an uncle of the son of his sister died, and he was a close friend of him... When it arrives news that make him remember his parents’ death, he puts a little sad, but it was not the same that when they both died. She does not give him the news without doing that he is prepared before... Regarding that last event, when her husband received the news only asked "how?" and did not say anything else. Her son, that studies psychology, said that that reaction was not very good because he had saved all to himself. But after, when he was watching the television, he was chatting and he acted normally. The loss of a loved one did not discouraged her husband: he has never stopped working and he has kept his mind busy.
 
00:30:05 	In the eight years that passed before having children, Adelina accustomed to being here, in a country with another way of life. In that time her husband and she worked so much. His brothers and he himself bought a pizzeria that her husband served and he had no day off. The life of both was only to work and they saw themselves just at night, when they returned home. The day Adelina had free, she prepared food and took it to the pizzeria where they both ate. When her husband’s sister was here, Adelina went with her to some artistic shows in the Madison Square Garden. It was an easier and less expensive life, they could move more easily and went to some restaurants and then to the pizzeria at the time of closing. All was so monotonous... For some festivities, as Thank Giving, all the brothers met at night and the day following they returned to the routine of always.
 
00:32:00 	Adelina is from Oaxaca, where the people are different, the habits, the foods. In Oaxaca people are more loving, families are more united... Her husband is from Puebla: they are always observing how the people is wearing, while in Oaxaca people is more simple, for being of the coast they do not have to walk well dressed, they are walking with shorts and sandals... the people is looking more in details. The food is equally different... In Oaxaca its people is more active, more for business, in Puebla instead the people when accurate money they do not puts themselves to make cakes for selling because they think in what is going to think the neighbor if they make that. In Oaxaca It doesn't matter what the people can say.
 
00:33:55 	Adelina is more impressed for the great opportunity that exists in this country for people who come, which does not exist in our countries. In Mexico there is an age limit that women have presentation for being young and if not they are not supported in any work. That would be its own case if she stayed in Mexico. While in this country what is worth is the knowledge, how one is unfolding. If anybody comes here is not to be with the arms crossed and waiting that others do something by one because no one makes it... She came with the set table because her brothers-in-law were here for years and had their own apartments, so she had it all, but she initially told her husband: "I am going to continue working here, I'm going to continue to be whom I am and if I have the possibility of getting ahead, I will do it..." Her first job in Oaxaca was in a law firm. The second one was in the accounting of a pharmacy: a Professor of hers recommended her, and then the same professor helped her to enter to work in "Corona" brewery… Adelina was a resolute woman and always was replacing (without payment) any employee that is out for holiday, so she was knowing the particularities of the different works of the company. To the marriage she resigned although the manager did not want to accept it... She left everything and that was very hard for her. When she got here she always remembered all that, by that was that she almost always said to her husband "I want to return to Mexico." Her husband answered all the time to her:  "we are already going to return" but they have never returned. 
 
00:40:33 	Now, her children ask them their plans for the future. She says that she is studying while is still working, and her husband says that he has not thought: "perhaps we will return to Mexico by a time." The children say: "what are you going to do there? Things are not well." 
 
00:42:27 	Adelina says: "when I offer my friendship, I really give it of heart", but she knows that not all the people do the same thing and that one can get many disappointments considering someone your friend and then you know that they are not. "I can count my friends with the fingers of my hands, I mean: those who have been really my friends, those whom I can count in any moment, in whom I can trust unconditionally… the others are only cafe’s friends" "I do not know if I am wrong, but in this country it is very difficult to get friendships." Those persons who say they are your friends, they are always asking something in exchange, while in our countries friendship is more sincere. "I have friends that I knew since childhood and we are friends even today," and they keep in communication themselves. Adelina feels that here people is more suspicious by the same things that have passed to themselves, perhaps people are not bad, but whom have made damage to them made them be so. "In this country one loses that humanity that we bring from our places." She says that she has not had negative experiences, but unconditional friendship is not easy to find in this country... Of course, in any country is very painful to be unconditional friend. 
 
00:46:10 	Where Adelina is working now, she has the opportunity of knowing people of different cultures and she can notice the differences between people, perhaps by that she feels that the Hispanic are more open and expressive than the Asian whom repress to much their feelings (they are not very affective, they are very dry). She likes Queens for its diversity of cultures.
 
00:48:10 	Adelina’s friendship with Sonia Soberats was born because they are neighbors and they were trying very closely. Adelina appreciates her friendship to much, and learns much of her. She admires her. Sonia is blind, but she always manages very well, even when Adelina precise orientation of how getting to some place in Manhattan, Sonia says it to her... Roxana helped to his son with mathematics in a time in that the teacher was ill and could not give him classes for the tests that was approaching. 
 
00:50:20	 Adelina speaks of how got USA tourist visa in Mexico.
 
00:51:40 	Adelina speaks of her childhood and the games she played, in many of which were involved all the children of the neighborhood. She and her friends of childhood recall “those times that are never going to return..." In that time when the mother said "come home", children obeyed, now you say to children that is not already time of seeing television and they begin to shout, and if one wants to call them attention or give them a slap, they threaten with calling the police. That makes the difference of why people of before were more healthy that people of now. She mentioned the difference in education since children today have calculator or internet that tell them all: they no longer use the head... The education of the child in the house depends on the father, both here and in our countries... She would have liked that all parents worried about their children since that would avoid that she was concerned about how their children's friends were... His eldest son is now 21 years old, but until a year ago he said where he was going. She considers that it is very important to maintain good communication with the children. Now that they are men if they spoil it is fault of themselves, as she says to them.
 
00:58:07 	Adelina’s fears in the school and in the University have always been drugs, alcohol, women. She talked about these issues to her children. They knew that everywhere there were those dangers, and they knew how to avoid them. She always advised them, but she left in freedom and they were whom decided.
 
00:59:24 	In Adelina’s neighborhood there are all sorts of children. She knows her children’s generation. Some goes to College, but others are in jail or they are not doing good or legal things and that, as a mother, gives her much sadness because she know them from childhood. They had too much freedom, their parents did not worry about them... There was no communication. 
 
01:00:53 	Adelina speaks of differences that perhaps are among people that were born here and those who came illegal when they were children and they did not fix their documents, preventing them to continue their higher education because many benefits are denied them.
 
01:03:00 	Adelina says that now, in election time, she must be deciding by a candidate and she does not know who is the best, but all that she wants is that the best wins because this is the country that manages the whole world. The mentality of the candidates is very different since one wants to help immigrants and the other does not. This country, she believes, is of all people who live here, as it said by her countryman Jorge Ramos: here everybody is immigrant, everyone is following the same American dream, it does not matter the country of origin. We are all coming to treat of being better than we were. If we leave to win a candidate that does not want immigrants "what is he going to do with us?" The fight is going to be more difficult, more difficult has to be our situation in this country. We are here for giving a good education to our children. 
 
01:04:22 	Adelina believes that the American dream is to be prepared, working hard for having knowledge, for fighting the battle for better life. We must not treat of living to coast of another person, but to coast ourselves. 
 
01:05:17 	We are seeking our own welfare when we get to this country, unfortunately there are some people who do not matter by passing over others to get up, and they are selfish because they have the form of helping or teaching others and do not make it. There is no solidarity in the people, even when they are of the same country… it is clear that "I can only speak of my own country…" She has seen Chinese and Hindu people working hard and helping each other: they buy a business among ten people and then they continue working until all they have their own businesses... Adelina says that in her country people are always criticizing or envying someone who gets what they do not have. We should be united as the Asians that are helping each other to realize their own dreams... Many Latin American people are limiting their need here for sending money to their country for helping their families. This is the reason why they don't eat well and many times get sick. They send money to their countries, by doing that people think that here the money is won in an easy way and that is not the truth…
 
01:08:56 	The Hispanic community has grown so much but they do not like to learn English, since they don't need it in supermarkets, on the bench, in the mail and in hospitals. But that is a great mistake: we need English because in many parts of this city everybody has to speak it... Adelina says that when she came to this country she only knew a few words of English and, at the beginning, it was very difficult for her to work because customers spoke English and she did not understand them, especially when they were claiming something. “One became frustrated because you didn't know how answering.” That gave her so much courage and said to herself: "I'm going to learn English, at least for defending myself when someone is attacking me..." Here, we are in Queens, where there are people of many nationalities and you cannot communicate with them if you don't know English… When she began to go to the Association of parents of family meetings, she already knew as a 70% of English, but always had a friend to whom she could ask if she did not understand something: but she knew that that could not be all the time that way, she knew that she had to learn English for being self-sufficient. 
 
01:13:20 	When one of her sons was in primary, he played saxophone and in the School orchestra each father accompanied children... After each presentation the teacher of music came up to congratulate parents and children and he gave them a hand, but a girl from Bangladesh was banned for its culture to do it, which was very respectable, and she apologized for it... Adelina says that she was knowing that cultural differences go that way, and she has learned so much from different cultures: good and bad things.
 
01:14:56 	Hindu women are humanitarian and friendly and they cooked with spicy, as Mexicans. When there was meetings between them, each one took food from the own country and the Hindu made a very rich desserts. The food of every culture is very different in accordance with the spices that are used, said Adelina. Mexican used much spicy, Colombian likes beans, Peruvian chickens are delicious. Although she has not almost eaten much the food of others countries, but she loves Italian, Chinese and Korean (that carries many vegetables).
 
01:17:25 	Adelina does not speak much about her husband. He is very quiet, reserved. If one asks him something, he responds what he wants, he does not answer what you have asked him... For his depressive problem he does not had any therapy: "I am a person very believer, I'm Christian, very practitioner of the Bible. We have the gift of prophecy. When a person prays, the Lord can speak by the lips of that person. The Lord has made me many beautiful promises, one of which was that we did not worry for nothing of what has happened to my husband because the Lord was healing him. So he has changed a lot, now he is a very different person, but he did not need a psychologist or psychiatrist. I can say that that God is helping him." In her Church they are not fanatics, nobody prohibits them do things as they have free will: we can go to a party and take a drink if we are invited, the problem is to exceed in drinking because that is something contrary to their faith. She says that the free will is the liberty of expressing or do what you want. She is a believer and she admires God, respects and fears him, for that reason she will never criticize people for doing things that are not correct for her: "now I am happy, I am doing what I always wanted to... I never thought to come to this wonderful country, but I'm here and here my children were born. They have raised and are boys of whom I feel very proud because are good children and citizens. I strange too much to my family in Mexico, but I am very happy in this country at this time. I do not have still arrived to the goal that I wanted to, but there I am…" She know although that all could change, but so far her children are going well and she is happy.