My name is George Phillips.  WeÕre in Astoria Music.  The address is 35-19 30th Avenue, Astoria, New York, 11103.    The store has been here since 1922.  As a music store, just the way you see it.  I did very, very, very, very few changes.  It is the third oldest business in Astoria.   As original, location and everything.  The second one is Ronzoni Corporation up on Northern Boulevard [no longer functioning as a factory at that location].  And the number one is Steinway pianos, down by Steinway Street.     I started working here in 1982.  IÕve been here 30 years.  We sell the full line of instruments, full-line music store actually; guitars, everything, saxophones, flutes, brass, woodwind, mandolins, bouzoukis (which is a Greek instrument), violins, cellos, accessories, accordions, harmonicas, everything. Yes, yes, yes!  I average anywhere between six to seven bouzoukis a month.  I always have orders coming in from Greece.  I order them from Greece.  TheyÕre all handmade.  IÕm the only music store in America that sells bouzoukis like this Ð well, the real thing.  There are lots of imitations and stuff but this is the real thing.    A bouzouki is in the guitar familyÉwell no the guitar is in the bouzouki familyÉbut a bouzouki is tuned like a guitar except it is one step lower.  The open strings on a bouzouki are D-A-F-C, from high to low.  And on a guitar itÕs E-B-G-D.  So the scales and formations are all the same just one step lower.  And they are double strings on a bouzouki.  The last two are octaves.    I have played professionally for about 45 years now.  I perform professionally.  IÕm Greek American, yes.  Well there are a lot of different musicians over here so I service everybody.  There are a lot of violin players, guitar players, thereÕs always something to do.  But in general the music business as far as professional playing is has goneÉlive music, as far as professional playing goes, has gone down a little bit.  There arenÕt as many venues available in general.  Throughout the whole US that is.  But over here in Astoria in New York maybe itÕs a little bit less pronounced but itÕs still happening.  ItÕs like slowly, slowly fading out.  A lot of the clubs that are opening donÕt feature bands like they used to do back in the Ô80s and Ô90s and Ô70s and in the Ô60s.  You would have a band and people would come.     A lot of the stuff now is artificial.  ItÕs like the guy DJ playing music.  ItÕs not the same thing. A lot of the music is un-reproducible.  ThereÕs a lot of junk out there.  And bands donÕt play that type of music.  I mean thereÕs like 50 rhythm tracks going on, electronic, and stuff like that.  And a lot of times that type of music, musicians donÕt actually play, because itÕs just junk.   You know like two-chord songs.  The quality of music, the writing has gone down tremendously.    ThereÕs not really good songsÉfor example, about 20 years ago even that recently letÕs say, 30 years ago, in one year you would have 200 songs, brand new songs that were written by different artists.  Out of those 200 songs, about 180 of them are still being played today, as standard; I mean they are still being played today - Beautiful songs.  Some Sinatra songs, Billy Joel songs, Beatles tunes back from the 60s; they are still being played today.     Today, you would have 200 new songs that are out right now.  Big hit, whatever, theyÕre considered a big hit.  You will never hear that song again in six months.  They are dead.  The quality of music has gone down.  So to go back to your original question about why arenÕt there bands playing, because this stuff is un-reproducible.  And musicians would rather not play that type of music.  ThereÕs no quality to the music anymore.  Country music is still good, letÕs say, because youÕre going to say Òoh what a beautiful melody lineÓ.  I have yet to see in the past five, six, ten years letÕs say, a song that has a beautiful melody line, to say Òhey, thatÕs really a nice song, IÕll learn it.  And IÕll give it to my band to play.Ó  ThereÕs nothing.  All you hear is Òshooka shooka shooka, booka booka bookaÓ whatever the hell theyÕre doing.  A lot of percussion a lot of noise and everything like that.  So thatÕs why they opt better for DJs to do that kind of thing, a lot of house, DJ, rap isnÕt even music, itÕs that type of thing.   What I perform is basically Greek and American music, thatÕs our forte.  We do corporate events, we do shows, we do festivals, stuff like that.  We do weddings or private affairsÉwe do traditional Greek music and also top 40 American, oldies, stuff like that.   Changes? [To the neighborhood]Éthere are still a lot of Greeks around here - still a lot of Greeks.  The old worldÉItalians, Yugoslavians, stuff like that, they kept their homes here.  And thatÕs whatÕs keeping the neighborhood halfway decent around here.  You know they clean their front yards, they care about their homes.  TheyÕre homeowners.    People who live over here stay over here.  I mean this is the greatest country in the world, in the history of mankind, this country here.  Why would anybody want to go back to Greece and sufferÉto go through what the hellÉthey are a bunch of lazy bums over there.  You know.  Socialism doesnÕt work, end of story.  ThatÕs why they are in the pickle that they are in right now.  Today is Thursday, December 1st.  The euro is on the verge of collapse.  It just doesnÕt work.  Thatcher, the Prime Minister of England said it the bestÉshe says, ÒYeah, sure, socialism, thatÕs the best system in the world,Ó it is, it truly is, and I agree with her, ÒUntil you run out of the other peopleÕs money.Ó  And thatÕs whatÕs going on right there.  [The US is the greatest country because of] Everything!  I mean we have helped millionsÉI mean first of all we have liberated millions of people.  If it wasnÕt for this country during World War 1 or even more so during World War II, the swastika would be all over Europe.  After that if you had let the Russians go if it wasnÕt for this country, the other half would be Communist.  So you would have three quarters of the World run by communists and fascists if it wasnÕt for this country.  Not only that, we have helped every country on this planet during natural disasters.  They had that tsunami down in Indonesia when was it, about two years ago or something like that, we were the first country over there, we sent the USS Hope, itÕs a naval hospital.  We had Katrina over here.  Not one country sent one penny to us.  Selfish pigs.  Not one country helped us.  To say Òhey you know what America you helped usÓ, you know.  Not even that did they give us.  And thatÕs why this is the greatest country on earth, because of our big heart that we have over here, and the freedoms that we have.  Our founding fathers were geniuses.  They couldnÕt anticipate everything and thatÕs why they left the amendments, for it to be modified, itÕs a living document.   Why do people try to bust our doors to come in, why?  Because of what weÕve got.  If you were to say things over here and the freedoms that we have over here youÕd either be in jail, your family would be disappeared or you would be tortured to death.    [Bringing it back to the neighborhood, so have there been any changes?]  Not really.  The houses are the same.  ThereÕs a little bit more restaurants.  Stores have changed a bit, a few more eateries around here.  But the character is the same because of the European influence around here.  ItÕs clean and stuff, that type of thing.   Oh I love it [my work here].  Music in any form, music only makes life better.  I love what I do.  I used to be a NASA engineer.  I was with the government for about eight years.  I was being shipped all over the world.  Some of the stuff was top secret; some of the stuff was design, research design, celestial mechanics, quantum stuff, mechanics of vehicles.  I have two degrees in physics.  But I left the government.  And this was an opportunity and I was always playing music, so I bought this to be my own boss.   