Richard Post is a WorldÕs Fair historian and an ardent advocate for Flushing Meadows-Corona Park. He first visited the 1964-65 WorldÕs Fair at age 10, which he describes as the Òperfect ageÓ to be inspired by its grandeur and optimism about the future. When he returned to the park as an adult in the 1970s and Õ80s, he was shocked and dismayed to see remnants of the fair lying in ruins. Richard has worked tirelessly to preserve and rehabilitate both the surviving elements of the fair and the park itself, and believes things are finally headed in the right direction.    00:00:20 Richard visited the fair when he was 10 and 11 years old. He remembers the positive techno future it represented and felt he was the perfect age to really appreciate the fair. He has spoken to others who were the same age for the 1939-40 WorldÕs Fair who had a similar reaction. Those who were 16-18 were more interested in dating and getting into trouble at the fair.  00:02:23 He was in the 4th or 5th grade living in East New York around the Brooklyn/Queens border in 1964, then moved to Williston Park in Nassau County in 1965. So he was experiencing a lot of new, exciting things, including the fair.  00:03:20 Richard remembers driving with his father and grandfather, seeing the fair being built along the Long Island Expressway and the Grand Central Parkway. It was exciting watching it all being built Ð towers, dinosaurs, rockets, etc. Ð and then seeing the finished product. He remembers, though, hearing his father bad-mouthing Robert Moses and all the congestion the construction caused. The contrast between how a child viewed the fair versus an adult was striking.  00:06:07 He remembers visiting the fair maybe three times, but itÕs hard for him to remember exactly because he visited the fairgrounds several times after the fair had been taken down. Richard had convinced himself and his peers that he had jumped the turnstile and got into the fair for free but explains why he believes that this could not have been true. Finding ways to sneak into the fair was really popular, and there are many online communities that share such stories still today.  00:08:20 In RichardÕs visits Ð one with his parents, one with a school group, and one with his grandfather Ð he remembers seeing everything on Òthe checklistÓ and covering a lot of the fairgrounds. He interviewed his mother once to see if she could help clear the line between memories he had when he was a child and memories he got from films, stories, etc. of the fair but she wasnÕt a lot of help. His father had an old-fashioned J66 Polaroid camera that he used to take numerous photos, but he did not take any photos when they were at the fair because the camera was large and required a lot of materials and work to take successful photos.  00:11:17 He stresses that the NY WorldÕs Fair had a huge influence on himself and his entire generation. Many people decided to take on a career related to a field, art, technology, etc., which they were first exposed to at the fair. Richard always wanted to be a photographer and began doing work for a shoe company (which is no longer in business) that tried to recreate that Òcorporate exhibit pizzazzÓ from the fair. Without even realizing it, he found that he moved on to do audio/visual work for most of the key players who provided multimedia for the WorldÕs Fair.   00:14:50 The fairÕs influence on Queens was incredible because of all the different cultures it brought to the area. Richard explains that the title ÒWorldÕs FairÓ was an arrogant American title and that it was actually just an International Exposition. Calling it a ÒworldÕs fairÓ is deceptive because most of the attendance was American. Many of the people from other countries who staffed the fair pavilions remained in Queens. He does not think that there will be another WorldÕs Fair in New York City but he really does believe that we are now living in a ÒworldÕs fair.Ó [Queens Borough President] Melinda Katz has given Queens the title of ÒThe WorldÕs BoroughÓ and Flushing Meadows Park, ÒThe WorldÕs Park,Ó which is the legacy of the fair.   00:19:34 Richard, not yet 18, had moved to Jackson Heights from Long Island when he first revisited the park. In the early 1980s, historians, including David Oats, worked with the Queens Council on the Arts (which was created by Melinda KatzÕs mother) to create exhibits on the World Fair. The Queens Museum also had relics of the fair, which rekindled his interest in the fair. Queens Museum was selling the maps and guidebooks from the fair, which Richard was able to buy for almost nothing, and he would use them when walking through the park. In the Õ70s and Õ80s, when he visited, there were still deserted remains of the fair. Revisiting the rundown, deteriorating space exhibit seemed the most heartbreaking to him; pieces of the rockets and space vehicles were left to ruin.  00:25:15 Richard talks about the mystery that still puzzles many people: What happened to the fair? Why was it left to become a ÒgraveyardÓ? When he began using the Internet, he found that there were a lot of communities still excited about the fair; he was shocked, too, to find a lot of misinformation and xenophobia about the park. But, he feels that the park now belongs to all of the ethnicities who live in the area. He marched with a large number of undocumented Americans in order to save the park from being destroyed, and as a result itÕs been given back to the locals. He believes we are back to a place where we are working towards Òliving the dreamÓ of the fair again. He is really at home with being an advocate for the park.   00:31:06 He explains that everyone talks about Robert Moses and the fair, but no one talks about David Oats. He was a personal friend of Robert Moses and would be 65-66 years old now (he died at 58). Oats lived in the Flushing Projects when construction began for the fair and frequently snuck inside. One day he was caught and brought to Robert Moses, and they became great friends. Oats became a civil planner, a journalist, and an advocate for Queens and Flushing Meadows. There is a small patch of land Ð ÒDavidÕs GardenÓ Ð dedicated to Oats in the shadow of the New York State Pavilion; Richard regrets that his role has not been more widely celebrated.      