Dumitru Radu has lived in Woodside since coming to the United States with his wife and son in the mid-1950s. Born in Romania, Radu spent most of his career as a commercial airline pilot. After living here more than 50 years, he maintains his enthusiasm for the freedom he has found in this country.   00:00:57 Dumitru Radu reflects on the political climate of Europe after World War II, especially the influence of the Soviet Union on Eastern Europe. In addition to having physical control, the Russians sought to control education to make people “real Communists.”   00:03:10 Soviets wanted to make certain that the better educated classes were in line with political system, not just in Radu’s native Romania but all over Eastern Europe.       00:05:00 The climate of Soviet persecution led Radu, along with his wife and son, to join the waves of refugees seeking to leave Eastern Europe. After leaving Romania, they first lived in France, and then received a visa to enter Colombia, where they lived for five years. Radu found employment in Colombia as a pilot for Avianca airlines; his wife taught Romanian.   00:05:48 In 1955, Radu and his wife decided to vacation in New York for one month. His wife was so taken with the freedom she witnessed that she insisted they relocate here permanently. The immigration office said his wife could get a visa to stay here if she could find a teaching job. Since she was not certified to teach in U.S. public schools, they contacted the Episcopalian Bishop [James] Pike to see if she could be hired in an Episcopalian private school, and he found her a position. She then received a visa, and Dumitru and their son were allowed to emigrate here as well.   00:09:33 On settling in the U.S., Dumitru’s wife taught at the school of the Cathedral of St. John the Divine in Manhattan. He worked as an airline pilot but could not get a job in the U.S. He received an offer from Air Liban, a subsidiary of Air France based in Lebanon.   00:11:06 He notes that in Romania, all educated people learned to speak French. He also learned Spanish during his time in Colombia; his Romanian accent sounded very similar to a Spanish accent to his friends in Colombia.   00:12:25 Radu accepted a position with Air Liban and relocated to Lebanon; his wife finished out the school year in New York and then joined him there, though they were both considered American residents at that point. His wife got a teaching position in the American school of Beirut, but they returned to live in the U.S. for a period of time each year to maintain their American residency. There were many American businesspeople in Beirut at that time.    00:15:40 Around 1958, the Radu's purchased their house on 57th Street in Woodside, Queens, although they were still living primarily in Beirut. He says it is important to Romanians to own the house in which they live.  00:16:39 When the Radu's first bought their house, the neighborhood was primarily German and Italian. Now, he says it is probably about 50 percent immigrants from South America. He has a chance to use his Spanish again when shopping in the neighborhood.  00:19:13 He went to Queens College for adult education classes in order to increase his understanding of American culture. At age 60, he was forced to retire from his pilot’s job according to aviation age limitations. Since he was not yet eligible for Social Security, he worked for five years as a translator with the New York State Department of Labor, helping to translate between parties in labor disputes. Many immigrants, he noticed, did not learn English despite living in the U.S. for many years.   00:25:18 Radu loved his career as a pilot, describing it as “the most beautiful occupation.” He enjoyed traveling around the world and being paid to do it.   00:26:41 The Romanian community in Queens: He feels he’s “not an authority” on that, mostly a private person and not really involved in political organizations. He has friends of many different ethnicities.     00:29:31 He wrote a book (in Romanian) and is giving a copy to the Queens Memory Project. It has photos of Radu and his wife on pp. 56-57.  00:30:25 Radu was a pilot in Romania during World War II. He gives a brief history of Romania and its location near the Black Sea and Carpathian Mountains; many invading forces passed through the region over the centuries. He stresses the “Latinity” of Romania and its language, as distinct from its Slavic neighbors. Orthodox Christianity is the predominant religion.   00:36:13 He was a civilian pilot in Romania, but since all pilots worked for the state, they were automatically militarized during WWII. His duties included flying fuel to battlefield locations and transporting wounded soldiers. During one such flight he was shot down by a Russian fighter plane; he feels it was a miracle that he survived since there were 114 bullet holes in his plane!    00:40:43 In the photo with his wife, they are in Bucharest, the capital of Romania. The photo (in the book) from 1988 was taken in Cleveland, Ohio. He refers to the famous Romanian poet Eminescu and composer Enescu. The suffix “escu” indicates a family name.  00:43:03 Radu remembers the film “The Golden Door” [1941, also known as “Hold Back the Dawn”] starring Charles Boyer as a Romanian seeking to immigrate to the United States.  00:44:22 After living in the U.S. for many years, Radu remains convinced that the American concept of freedom is the “perfect organization of a civilized society.” He returns to the subject of “The Golden Door,” noting that the name of Boyer’s character ended in “-escu.” Romanians have the option of adding –escu to their family names or keeping them shorter, as Radu has.  00:50:15 Radu currently has tenants in his house in Woodside; there are six apartments in the half of the building he owns. The other half of the building is owned by a Filipino man, with whom he gets along. He has found when he rents to Romanian tenants they expect special treatment because of their shared heritage.   00:53:17 Radu recommends a book by another Romanian immigrant that deals humorously with differences between the Romanian and American way of doing things: “The Pleasure Is Mine,” by Mircea Vasiliu.                                                                                                                                                                                         