Al Rankin has been living in Flushing since 1975. He settled in the Carlyle Towers on Kissena Boulevard and has been there ever since. He is a part of the Northwest Chapter of the NAACP and the Democratic Club of Flushing. He recalls his time being in those clubs, the activities he was a part of. Al talks about being a teacher in College Point and then doing real estate. He gives his thoughts on the black community in Flushing and his predictions for the future of the neighborhood.   0:00:00 Ð Al Rankin has been living in Flushing since 1975 with his wife. He is originally from Mississippi. He was working as a school teacher in College Point. He lives on Franklin Ave and Kissena Boulevard. He lives in a multiple dwelling home. He met the other tenants through the Carlyle Towers tenants association. He joined the NAACP and the Democratic Club of Flushing. He was living with whites, blacks, Hispanics, and Asians. Through the tenant associations, they fought for better heating, room for community activities, and youth activities. Through the NAACP and the Democratic Club, he was active in the Flushing community. The organizations were very diverse and welcoming to new members.   0:06:00 Ð NAACP helped with voter registration, educating the youth about civil rights. The public was very receptive to the programs. Al is still part of the organizations. The membership for them has dwindled through the years. The black community did not have many members in those organizations. They were mainly in the churches.  0:10:00 Ð Al is not a member to either church but he attended both of their services. The churches were very vital to the black community for its activities. He talks about how the NAACP worked with Ebenezer Church during the Civil Rights Movement. They helped integrate the Woolworth in Flushing.   0:13:00 Ð after teaching in College Point for 27 years, he went into real estate and then worked at the Latimer House. He enjoyed the change into real estate because he liked working with people. He liked making his own hours. He drove to work when he was a teacher. He has noticed by driving how congested the roads have become.   0:16:00 Ð For fun, his organizations would throw social events like the Freedom Fund by the NAACP. There was a Little League team in Flushing. Flushing had a lot of businesses in the area when Al first moved in. But, they began to close a year later. He said the incoming Asian immigrants helped build businesses in Flushing. He thinks that for black businesses it has been mainly a financial struggle for them to thrive in Flushing. He is part of the Flushing Chamber of Commerce.   0:21:00 Ð He thinks the African American communityÕs voice has been stronger. He tells the story of how a park on 146th St. built on top of an African American and native American cemetery is being criticized by the African American community. He thought concerns about this cemetery was not raised enough before.  0:23:00 Ð He thinks that the rezoning for Flushing has not done enough to make Flushing affordable. He has gone to meetings about the rezoning because of his involvement with the Flushing Chamber of Commerce. He thinks that the black community wants input on whatever changes is happening to Flushing. He has not seen the black community grow numbers-wise. He thinks a lot of them have moved to other parts of Flushing. He thinks the developments in Flushing will not encourage black people to come back. He thinks the system that the city assigns affordable housing like the lottery is not helpful for the black community. He thinks diversity is going down with the developments.   0:30:00 Ð He was president of the Flushing branch of the NAACP for 12 years. When the Latimer House was saved, he was asked to be part of the board that ran the house. He was asked to be vice-president. He is a volunteer that is running the Latimer House. Lewis Latimer lived in Flushing. LatimerÕs original house was on Holly Ave. Latimer improved on the light bulb design to make it burn longer.   0:38:00 Ð He thinks Flushing is going to be big center for business and tourism. He wants Flushing to be close with the activities at the Tennis Center. Right now, people just go to the Tennis Center and skip downtown Flushing. He wants more young people to be involved in the history of Flushing.  