At the time of this interview, Mary Reuder is in her 60s and a Professor Emerita of Queens College.  Bette Weidman interviews Mary Reuder about her role at Queens College’s School of General Studies as well as her background from childhood, her academic career and leading up to her tenure at Queens College.  Reuder details her undergraduate career and subsequent graduate experiences at Brown (masters) and University of Pennsylvania (PhD).  She explains how her work with the military helped her get hired at Queens College.  She outlines her role with the Psychology Department in the School of General Studies where she started out running the night school and helped transform the night school into a respected evening program.  Reuder also served as head of the American Psychological Association, has won numerous awards, authored articles and books and is named in Who’s Who.  Though she stopped driving in 2012, she is still reading and living in Shohola, PA.
Reuder_02261986_A [Reuder_Mary_by_Weidman_Bette_02261986_Pt1]
00:00:00	Tape test
00:00:22	Coming to Queens was serendipity.  Husband had gotten job and Adelphi and decided to get out of government.  He had been working for military and she was doing lots of things. 
00:00:54 	Started job hunting and he got job at Adelphi so started looking in New York. 
00:01:01	At APA meeting met Greg Razran who was seeking substitute because Dr. Winnick was on maternity leave.  
00:01:23	Dr. Winnick (Wilma) was in same masters program at Brown University even though she was a native to New York and Reuder was a native of Minnesota.  
00:01:33	Delighted to take job but was only for one semester.  
00:01:41	Dr. Razran found night teaching for her for spring semester but it didn’t pay as well and could not carry as much.  
00:01:57	Job hunting like mad at same time in ’54, ’55.
00:02:08	In between was substitute for Emma Spaney for a year along with full time night teaching and summer school.
00:02:28	Greg went to talk to Dean Garvey and found out about Ford Foundation grant about university self evaluation vs. external evaluations.  Queens College was to do a study of non-academic functions for this.
00:02:59	He was looking for faculty person to be research director for grant so worked for Tom Garvey. 
00:03:11	Got to know all about plant and grounds and how it worked, bylaws, who did what, hierarchy at a university, payroll, purchasing, registrar functions – everything except academics. 
00:03:55	Made trip to Philadelphia to Bryn Mawr because they had one of the best buildings and grounds setups in the area.  Hoping to make Queens College look pretty like Bryn Mawr but it wasn’t exactly successful. 
00:04:23	There was a committee but was running day to day procedures.  There were various faculty members on the beginning which allowed interaction with people from so many departments.  
00:04:44	Original lawyer George Schwartz from the Accounting Department was on the committee.  Donald Kirkpatrick, Ed Thorndike from Physics. 
00:04:58	Found out about college rule concerning Psychology orders of electrical equipment that it had to be approved by Physics department because they didn’t trust psychologists.  
00:05:12	Startled when they found out could troubleshoot cathode ray oscilloscope and offered job
00:05:32	Lasted a semester and a summer.  Money ran out September 1 but stayed on and finished getting report out. 
00:05:45	Working on finishing report, Cal Gorian had just been hired.  Were working in Jefferson Hall and printing equipment was in attic.  Roof was leaking because hurricane had started.  
00:06:04	Cal would go up to the attic to get the report which was about 300 pages.  Every once in a while he would say Oops!  Have to do it again and would drop stencil in the trap door from the attic and would go and type it again because the water from the roof would have ruined the stencil or master.
00:06:38	Memory of day:  when walked off campus through the back gate on Melbourne, the water was up to my waist.  It was a hurricane.  
00:06:54	Was September of 1955.  
00:06:59	Knows of one locked up copy of report: in her file cabinet.  All copies were numbered and kept under tight security.  They contained a lot of sensitive recommendations.  A lot of people gave up confidential information on how things did and didn’t work.  Sometimes it was personality but often it was procedure would be effective only if you had the right personality. 
00:07:40	Not good administration.  Procedure should be effective no matter who is involved.  Many of these nuances in the report.  There were many suggestions that if put into effect all at once would have started a rebellion.  
00:08:00	Queens was still a four year college at the time.   Kirkpatrick came along and recommended buying stock in a duplicating process - the one of the future.  The company was Xerox.  
00:08:36	The College used a thing called Ozlet.   There was one of those giant rollers in Jefferson Hall and it could make direct copies very laboriously and tediously.  It was restricted for music department use to make multiple copies for the chorus and bands and things. They didn’t want it going haywire. 
00:09:05	The rest of us dependent on photocopy or thermal copies which faded after two weeks in the light.  Thought Ozlet machine was going to be vast improvement.  But registrar had it under lock and key and only allowed Music Department to use it. 
00:09:35	Minored in Secretarial Studies in college.  One requirement was Business Administration.  Indexing and Filing concentrated on classification of material. Combined with work done for Navy – got PhD there were no jobs.  The Navy said you have all the requirements but we don’t hire women.
00:10:21	You might have to go to sea, on submarine.  How many have?  Well, never but that’s besides the point.  Have to be able to.  
00:10:32	Took Civil Service Test with the GSA for a typist job at Naval Ammunition Depot.  Asked for one month employee for task completed in about four days.  In 1951, year of PhD. 
00:11:01	Finished everything so read Navy manuals on personnel, budget, guns, ammunition.  Lieutenant asked if had done job analysis.  Knew what it was because required course in Industrial Psychology when doing doctorate.  Asked if she would do analysis of depot.  Said analysis was no good if couldn’t make changes. He said he would renew job appointment every month and allow to go job hunting.  In interest of Navy to have on board.  Would provide chauffer and car in needed to get to interview.  
00:12:13	Right outside Philadelphia.  Fort Mifflin Naval Ammunition Depot.  Don’t think it exists anymore. 
00:12:23	Did job analysis of depot and conducted training program for employees to train them for new jobs they were better qualified for.  Got upgraded.  Civil Service Commission very unhappy because read the footnotes in manual to uncover criteria used to classify jobs.    Once you know criteria, can write job description to fit criteria. 
00:12:51	Went to APA meeting on Navy time.   Had own little car and chauffer when visiting Civil Service Commission.  Quite fun.  
00:13:12	Wrote duty officers manual on depot on what Navy lieutenant should have to do if something happened on the base.  Had temporary building with men’s room with urinals and wash basins on one side of partition and storage for nuclear ammo on other side.  Ammo was the product.  Had a machinist who was injured in military service.  Had panic attack and pulled washbasins off the wall and slamming them against wall dividing them from nuclear ammunition.  
00:14:31	Then had to get him into car and to hospital.  Jumped out of car, smashed in hoods of cars.  Had to write procedures for things like that. 
00:15:01	Had done a lot of analysis of administrative processes and procedures.  First job was hired as editor for Army because PhD males couldn’t write.  Would walk around with shorthand book and ask what wanted to say and then copied down for report.  
00:15:34	Civil Service said anybody with PhD should be able to write own reports.  Don’t need editors.  So turned editors into other things.  Became analytical statistician.  Wrote up instructions for data analysis combining use of IBM machine and calculators and operators.  
00:16:02	Colonel asked for help.  Put to work as administrative assistant for plans for response to military attack.  How to operate without power.  Had cave in North Carolina for equipment.  
00:16:40	Were part of army that created diagnostic tests for personnel, officer selection.  Had to determine which sample copies of these tests would be saved.  Couldn’t store all but wanted samples to re-duplicate if needed.  
00:17:11	Had to think of manual typewriters, manual mimeograph machines, manual everything - much of which was already going off the market – and work out plan for emergency quarters underground.  
00:17:38	Finished that and at end was reviewing grant completions to see if they had met requirements.  Then quit and came to Queens. 
00:17:56	These skills were used in that very first Queens job. 
00:18:02	After that – hard to remember – full time substitute and full time adjunct.  One semester carried 23 credits teaching, combining day and night.  No that was on first full time.  00:18:39	Then Gregory Razran, chairman of Psychology Department – was a mentor – called.  Was simultaneously looking for something permanent.  
00:18:58	Razran said Board of Trustees thinking of full time night jobs.  If we get any, would you like one?  Sure.  Never said no.  Got three calls same day.  One from Gregory telling me he’d been over to Herb Schuler and Psychology Department had job and could have it.  Next came from Cornell Medical downtown.  Had job supervising clinical interns and teaching in that school. 
00:19:44	Hunter College called and offered second staff assistant professorship.  The job at night at Queens was instructor.  
00:19:57	Took it because she and Marvin (husband) had one child and didn’t want t be dependent on babysitters.  Not from this region, had no informal contacts.  Didn’t know how to even go about finding housekeeper or cleaning person.  This is kind of thing in own hometown that aunt, cousin, lady across street feeds you information on. 
00:20:37	Could work nights while Marvin worked days and take care of kids and still get ahead on careers.  That’s why took job.  School of General Studies at Queens was a nothing.  Consisted of handful of courses that contributed to two-year degree.  A student who wanted four-year degree had to transfer to City College after two years.  
00:21:!1	In department, practically nothing other than education courses, Psych 1 was terrible.  Gregory said School of General Studies is yours.  Do what you want with it.  Meant Psychology Department, not school although at one point felt like whole school. 
00:21:43	Was the start.  Discovered students had need for four-year degree.  Wanted to know what to do.  She pointed out that had to accept credits from one city college to another though not yet university. 
00:22:12	Suggested take all requirements for two-year degree and then take required courses for major for electives.  Would be well along when they got into four-year program without wasting time.  Some took numbers in courses beyond two-year degree and never went to City College.  Were already lower seniors in some cases, ready to roll.
00:22:54	Got bachelor’s degree in one September and had kids graduating in January because had planned ahead and worked with them on schedules.  
00:23:21	Was plan of day Psychology Department but had to think of minimum essentials, no fancy courses that other schools had.  Evening program was second-class citizen in eyes of world and seems to be characteristic nationwide. 
00:24:10	Because labor market in New York is unlimited, required PhD for anyone teaching night program and might take masters if desperate but only for one term and they would be first to go if enrollment dropped.  
00:24:30	Even though PhD is no guarantee of teaching ability, it is guarantee of exposure to discipline.  The fact that all professors were doctors made evening students feel good about their situation.  They could be proud of their degree. 
00:25:02	It was a case of acquiring power, too.  After the program had been built, she discovered there were problems running labs and the department didn’t want to share apparatus so began demanding share of budget to buy equipment. Got hunk of money to buy psychological tests and cabinets for storage. Was harder to get lab equipment but did ultimately. Figured it would be cheaper if only one set of equipment needed.  
00:25:52	But then couldn’t have syllabus requiring everyone do same all at same time. Redesigned course in experimental psych and other things and volunteered to be on department curriculum committee.  Dean had asked her to represent him on college curriculum committee.  He didn’t have time to go to meetings.  Dean of School of General Studies.  He had five full time faculty.  
00:26:32	Schuler left six months after to become president of Staten Island she thinks or one of those schools. She got along famously with Glen Howard who gave her everything she wanted.  
00:27:00	Experimental Psych course was completely different.  Accomplished same goals in different manner.  Put anything that didn’t need special equipment into lecture prerequisite course.  Divided lab course into sections.  One was on sensation and perception and one was on learning, thinking and so on. 
00:27:31	Kids were told that they worked in groups and had to done one experiment in each area and an original experiment.  Had all this equipment. Gave them science fair night so they could see what they had and how it worked.  You can do what you want.  Dream one up, go to library.  Look at what somebody else did and copy it.  Can go to day session and ask kids what they did for their lab reports.  Repeat that.  She didn’t care. Had to do one in each of the fields. 
00:28:04	It worked fantastically well because they studied what they dreamed up and wanted to study.  
00:28:17	Example: Day session had syllabi which said something like: Reaction Time.  There will be experimenter, observer and subject. Take reaction time equipment.  Do thus and such, record milliseconds, told what statistics to use, answer following questions.  
00:28:56	If her students chose to study reaction time, they decided what equipment, visual verbal or what kind of reaction time.  No questions, no guide to request statistics to use.  Collected data and figured out how to analyze it, analyzed it and interpreted it.  Didn’t write nearly as many reports as the day program because the day had a different syllabus, each week following directions.  
00:29:33	She doesn’t think you get far teaching people to follow directions.  Supposed to be able to do that when they get to college.  Really creating own directions.  It was very stressful, requires masochistic reading of the reports because you have to give students feedback. 
00:29:52	For first reports, it would take as much as six or seven hours per report to grade them.  It failed when she couldn’t find people willing to put that much time in. 
00:30:10	Six hours of reading reports is a lot. Faculty are well meaning BUT.  Can require this commitment from full time faculty but for part time faculty this was getting into masochistic teaching.  Depends on faculty member. 
00:30:43	Course was in place until 1975 crunch, about eight or ten years.  Started in 1958 or 1959 and ran until 1975.  
00:31:27	Her main contribution was that they set up a solid bachelor’s major of quality so that Queens students got scholarships, fellowships – sometimes more – than the day students.  Was reaching a point where day students were transferring into the evening presenting a diplomatic problem.   It got recognized to the point that she got phone calls from other universities asking what the model was and what it was like.  Students went off into the world.
00:32:16	They were good. Had problems outside department.  Honors committee never met in evening when students who were working full time could get there. One instance applying  for Danforth fellowship. The committee in the day had set rules.  Students were supposed to be reviewed by them and they approved applicants.  She knew nothing since they didn’t overlap.  But submitted papers for fellowship and her student won.  
00:32:59	When it came through, committee was shocked because they didn’t know it had been applied for.  
00:33:20	Requirement of original experiment was not unique to evening program.  Day also required it.  Found that when sat down with students and said to forget copying what someone else did, isn’t there something about people or behavior that’s kind of puzzled you?  One student said noticed that when it comes to intelligence tests that she’s better on numerical than verbal.  
00:33:59	Tell you to do the kind your best at first so I zip through and then get lower score on numerical so I get lower score on numerical because I do verbal first.  Wonder if works for people in general. She said you have an idea!
00:34:17	Now need more variables. One is numerical versus verbal.  Another is are they embedded – one verbal problem and then a numerical then verbal then numerical or do you separate into two kinds. But need another variable.  
00:34:45	Student couldn’t think of any.  She said three variables interested in: anxiety, locus of control – which is personality dimension – and one known as field dependency which is perceptual dimension.  If interested in any one, free to use it.  She would give her questionnaire to use for it.  Will not add or subtract from grade if use her variables.  If used, she was interested in it.  
00:35:!9	Research got organized around variables.  After kids turned them in, proceeded to reanalyze data herself.  Kids would get special letters in middle of summer saying if you’re willing to do x, y, z, she was willing to work with them and sponsor as paper for EPA.  Became famous.  EPA papers are read blind for acceptance.  Bulk come from doctorate level people on east coast.	
00:35:58	Became famous.  Every EPA they would have four or five papers on the program.  Twice her students won papers for best paper where principle was undergraduate student.  After that they changed prize because hers kept winning all the time and it became known as the Mary Reuder prize.  This was not such a good idea.  
00:36:29	Then she would write the articles and submit for publication making student first author.  In fact for most of her publications she is not first author for simple reason that these were undergraduates whom she felt had done bulk of work.  She was entitled because she provided sophistication, did writing, submitted, resubmitted, re-wrote it. 
00:37:05	Solved one problem of relating teaching to research by combining the two all the while doing administration.  
00:37:16	Yes, running program. Would start department meetings at 11pm.  One night was terrible.  Program grew.  At end she had five full time faculty in department. Would have full time faculty meetings regularly and one or two a semester of the adjunct faculty.  
00:37:49	They were remarkable.  That was before union would have said they had to be paid for it.  They could come in on holidays, any time to have meeting and get information, to get organized.  Key to running department with adjuncts is to make adjuncts feel they are part of the department.  Adamantly insisted that they have a vote on required textbooks in courses that was going to be crossing day and night.  Adamantly insisted that if content of statistics course was going to be modified that people have as much vote as day staff people. 
00:38:26	When department killed off in 1975, had arithmetic mean of 9.8 years of service.  Some of them had eighteen years of service.  Regularly, year after year with no breaks.  Those people in many ways were integrated part of department as full time faculty.  
00:38:57	That was a sore point.  Kept insisting that day people acknowledged night adjuncts.  They didn’t want to.  
00:39:06	Do you know anyone else who has had that kind of a career that’s combined teaching, research and administration from the moment of from the inception of a teaching career?
00:39:22	Mmm-mmm.  I don’t and part of it is because beginners are very rarely given the opportunity to administer anything. At once point I had been promoted. I had been an assistant professor.  I had been working quite a while and Greg Razran called and said ‘How are your publications coming?’ I told him.  He said, ‘We better put your up for promotion because you built something there.  Someone’s going to come along and say a man should be running this.  And they won’t dare say it so they’ll say your rank is too low.  An assistant professor shouldn’t be running empires like you’ve got.’
00:40:04	So then he got her promoted.  Which was never a problem. 
00:40:09 	How long an assistant professor until promoted?
00:40:13	Terminally, it seemed.  About five to seven years. Thought it was long.  In each rank.  Except associate was longer than that.  
00:40:40	Had publications.  Came in as instructor but at same time qualified for second step assistant professor.  Had publications and kept turning them out. 
00:40:58	Liked the evening schedule so she could be at home. Also a night owl.  One who is awake at night.  Not functionally very literate in the morning.  
00:41:18	At lunch we were talking.  Phone rang.  Was in middle of pointing out the lack of faculty development. One of the things faculty development consists of is taking new people and short-cutting orientation to school.  Not in form of orienting sessions.  Not meetings of faculty and telling them what all the rules are.  Nonsense.  Tell them how to go about.  Informal power structure.  
00:41:56	How to handle better.  Had new faculty who came in just as took over as chairman last year.  Keeps commenting, ‘You know the practical answer to everything, everywhere to turn.’  Had been struggling to get lab organized.  Had gotten her the money.  Norm Goldman was very helpful there.  
00:42:27	Had terrible problem with air conditioning and heating system.  Overheating or freezing.  She had managed to get local buildings and grounds guys over to help.  Very clear that the problem was beyond their ability to handle, beyond their authority to handle.  Didn’t know where to go next. 
00:42:51	Called up Jack Telfer, told him story, told him problem and asked him who to go to.  He said ‘let instructions come from me.’
00:43:03	She’s standing there listening.  She found out who does it, how you do it and little subtle political nuance. 
00:43:15	You found out when you first came from doing that report? 
00:43:19	Yes. Part through that report. Even though school changed and moved from four year college to a branch of a university and organizational pattern shifted.  Different people in different titles did different things.  Functions remained.  
00:43:38	Theobald was president when did that report.  Theobald was followed by Tom Garvey for a while as acting president.  Tyling was acting (president) very briefly.  Then came Joe McMurray and Murphy.  All those people read private copies of report and implemented different parts.  Could watch implementation. 
00:44:15	Recommendations on locks and keys for instance were inserted.  Personally got legal permission to charge fees for parking.  Initially could do nothing about parking with no money.  City flatly refused to contribute money for parking.   Problem was it wasn’t in writing anywhere.  Couldn’t legally charge fees. 
00:44:44	Had to get statement from City’s attorneys downtown – this was still four year college – so board of higher ed’s attorneys.  Famous for being unwilling to commit themselves to anything on paper. Will tell you over phone.  Won’t put on paper. 
00:45:05	‘Oh, am sure you will have no problem!’  ‘would you put that in writing please?’ ‘Oh yeah, I’ll get it out tomorrow.’ It reached point – had already been told about this “tomorrow” stuff – finally had secretary alert her every single morning at 9:15 – between 9:15 and 11 – made a call to these guys asking for permission to charge for parking.  Took three months.  
00:45:45	At end of three months, letter arrived.  They didn’t want to hear from her again.  
00:45:50	Sounds as if when you took teaching job at Queens, you took sense of whole institution?  The classroom wasn’t a separate place. Connected to everything. 
00:46:09	If you want to make most out of institution, have to master whole institution and place in it.  Then you can be as powerful as you want.  Not enough. Also have to go beyond institution.  Not famous psychologist but every person in Eastern Psych Association knows who she is.  
00:46:35	Have been active, giving papers, having students give papers, serving committees, chairing sessions for past thirty years.   American Psych Association, very active in two divisions. 
Reuder_02261986_B [Reuder_Mary_by_Weidman_Bette_02261986_Pt2]
00:00:00	We were developing an area no one else has in the impact on behavior of toxic chemicals.  This can range from fear, anxiety and stress reaction to nuclear waste. Can include things like this Tylenol business.  Can include Agent Orange.  He (?) was involved in agent orange as an expert witness.  Yet doesn’t know anyone he can call on in sponsors because he’s worked this out with the aides in non-psychology fields.  
00:00:48	Told him to go to APA and go to business meetings.  Nobody goes to business meetings except visible people and only handful.  They’re the only ones who give a darn whether budget gets approved.  
00:01:04	By going tot hem, maybe he’ll find that he’s appreciated because they need bodies.  They will talk to them and he will get to know these people and become a more active member of the association.  Told a number of her own faculty this last year.  
00:01:24	Haven’t had new faculty in eons except the one person because of the budget and all that and most of these people should have known this for years.  Didn’t.  Don’t know anything.  
How did you get to know all this? 
It was natural.
00:01:49	Any models from your past? 
00:01:58	Thing there are a number of things.  One: went to small college.  All faculty knew each other, interacted, administrative decisions jointly involved entire college.  Therefore role model of institution was partly shaped.  
00:02:28	The College of Saint Catherine.  Catholic school for women, college for women.  
		In Minnesota?
00:02:35	Yep.  New York times had an article where they noted its incredible proportion of professional women who have gone on to – I never got one – Fulbrights and fellowships.  She was first PhD Psychologists.  
00:03:02	Since those days, dozens and dozens.  Philosophy was you want broad base, secure center not to Catholic Universities but to universities of the world that had outstanding women in their disciplines.  If you wanted to study French, sent to Sarbonne.  English, literature, were sent to Oxford.  And similarly.
00:03:49	When it came to psychology, the University of Minnesota was as good as any, was next door, cheaper, so why not?  
		Was it in college that you decided on psychology?
00:03:58	That was funny.  Was accident. Was poli-sci major.  Came in as wide-eyed naïve green freshman.  Didn’t know how to think.  Required to take five hours a week course.  One hour every day in social science survey, in some ways analogous to what Queens used to call Survey of Western Civilization. 
00:04:29	Three quarters required five hours a week.  Was integrated combination of economics, history, and political science, taught by woman who had degree in poli-sci from Duke and had been Brookings Fellow and had minor in economics.  
00:04:46	 Don’t know how she did it.  She couldn’t.  She taught class of close to 80 students using Socratic method.  Did in way.  She had never been stimulated before like that to go out and study related material on own.  She would lecture and it would dawn on her that it would be helpful if knew something about sequence of all these kings and queens and rest. 
00:05:42	Went home and got out high school history books, outlined and memorized them so that she could be more proficient.  Same with governments in Russia and all rest.  Edna Flagel.  Magnificent teacher.  
00:06:03	Couldn’t say she was role model in sense that couldn’t use that method.  Not gifted enough in handling of discussion. 
		Found psychology in her course? 
		No didn’t find psychology at all.  
00:06:20	Found political science – first time in life.  Didn’t know what it was until then.  Ended up taking twenty-one credits a quarter because sneaking in courses for seniors only when freshmen.  Had major done when sophomore.  By end of sophomore year had all the courses required for major done in political science. 
00:06:47	She let her in to senior seminars, all these required things that you weren’t even supposed to be able to get in to.  Began looking for things to take.  Word was out that there was new teacher in psychology. Had had one required course in psych.  Ghastly. Most awful teacher there ever was.  Lovely woman but couldn’t teach.  
00:07:14	Had decided to end psychology.  No need in life.  Along came new teacher, just finished PhD at University of Minnesota, Sr. Annette.  Was beautiful woman.  Born counselor.  Word was out.  Small school.  She was offering course called experimental psychology.  Sounded interesting. 
00:07:54	Had several prerequisites, none of which she met, which was challenge.  Went and talked way into course, not realizing they were desperate for ten students and she was tenth.  Hindsight tells you many things about your childhood history. 
00:08:17	Took course. Neat.  She was model for what became E19 course at Queens many years later.  She had lab, new lab, not much equipment.  Had whole term of lab manuals, had to do about ten experiments in different lab manuals.  Had to pick out and do, work with what you’ve got. 
00:08:58	Had been interesting, 5 hour – yes, five credit course, including lab.  Decided to take other one that goes with it, Clinical Psych.  Then figured that if took Stat and took a couple of other courses, could have major in psych.  So collected major in Psych.  
00:09:28	One required course – interestingly enough – you would never have gotten out of a secular institution.  Was called Thomistic Psychology.  Basically was philosophy of Aqunias applied largely to behavior.  Concept of habit. For example, to what extent is person morally responsible for behavior that takes place as a habit. 
00:09:59	Before habit starts, control over whether you get habit.  These kinds of questions, basic core questions of philosophy.  It was there that she learned what the basic core questions of philosophy were.  Fellow (unintelligible) taught by priests, got nowhere. Course was fantastic. 
00:10:25	Author of book was famous Robert Brennan.  Turned out to be bigwhig at Providence College in Providence Rhode Island.  Went to Brown and looked him up and he invited her over.  Another experience. 
00:10:44	He tried to talk her into becoming a psychiatrist.  Offered tuition free – facilities at Providence College to pay for pre-med requirements. Had arrangement worked out.  Said Catholic Church had been missing not sponsoring enough among laity.  Worked out deal where group of physicians were willing to sponsor, one on one, full fellowships to medical school. 
00:11:21	You in turn agreed, when got practice going, would sponsor another person through medical school in similar fashion.  He would line that up for her if she wanted to become psychiatrist.  Could finish masters at Brown at same time. 
00:11:40	Gave it careful thought and decided too late.  Gotta stay, gotta make a decision somewhere. Had already shifted majors.  
		Couldn’t have been more than 24?
00:11:58	Was twenty-one by the time she left St. Catherine’s.  Twenty-one in March because I’d loaned it before I left home to go to grad school.  When it came to becoming psychologist, talk about mature decision-making.  Was graduating with a major in Poli-sci and another one in Psych and a minor in Secretarial Studies and another one in English.  All Philosophy courses in the college she had taken, except Philosophy of Ed.  Wouldn’t let her in because wasn’t Ed major. 
00:12:37	Friend Carol Pasendack who has degree and is out in Minnesota was a class behind.  Finished all requirements for BA in three years but didn’t have senior Philosophy and that was requirement for graduation.  Would not allow philosophy from heathen place like University. No substitute for their great philosophy course which was taught by Ed Farriss.  
00:13:10	Carol figured out that a famous philosopher had come to St. Cate’s to do a speech.  Went and talked with him and he said he’d let her in to his philosophy course.  No problem.  Then she want to officials of St. Catherine’s and they had special meeting of faculty.  Agreed that in this instance, this bigwhig’s philosophy course would satisfy requirement.  
00:13:36	Got herself assistantship at Fordham.  Said didn’t want to go East by herself.  Gotta find somewhere for her to go to grad school and she said, what’s grad school?  Was first college graduate in her family.  Didn’t know about these things.  Went to look a bulletin board.  Only two things listed.  
00:13:59	One was Brown University and the other was Catholic University.  Providence looked right near New York on the map.  Carol’s gonna be at Fordham and Washington wasn’t really that far away.  Rode off with materials to schools. 
00:14:15	Only one that replied was Brown. Sent all these forms.  They wanted them in ten days.  Was then February.  Friend told her they’d get them all filled out.  First to registrar because takes time to get transcripts out.  That college went all gung ho for its graduates. 
00:14:45	Had letters of recommendation, had transcripts had everything out by deadline and then some.  Was very tight going.  Kind of forgot about it.  Busy. In college, there was quite a crew. About fifteen of them were scholarship students. College gave scholarship to valedictorian of any high school in the Twin Cities.  
00:15:14	She and Carol found those were kids they were most interested in so formed a group.  Joined every club on campus so each of them was president of something.  Presidents of clubs were leaders of student government so that meant they ran student government too.  
00:15:38	So they were very busy in the spring.  One Saturday, mother called and said “you’ve got a terribly fat letter here from Brown University.  Can I open it?” Said no.  My letter.  But her parents were going out for dinner.  So she told her she’d call her mom and tell her what it said.  
00:16:10	It had three things.  I can’t remember what it said.  One was she could be secretary of department on full salary and also carry same courses teaching assistant would with full tuition exemption.   That was because she had the Steno.  
00:16:33	Could be teaching assistant for fifty dollars a month and tuition remission.  There was a third thing. Forgot what it was.  Chose the TA, sent it off and called mother and told her. 
00:16:59	When filling out forms for Brown, Carol asked which she was going to go for.  Poli-sci, English or Psych?  Had to think about it.  Talked to herself.  Could pick up a low-level magazine for articles she had written to catch eye and be interesting like Reader’s Digest, which do you read first?
00:17:30	Invariably read the psychological ones first, not ones in government or politics.  Was pretty sure that Poli-Sci major was major in Edna Flagel and not in Political Science.  Was terrific teacher. Just like minor in English was heavily a minor in Agnes Keenan.  One of these who had degrees from several places, masters in history from somewhere.  English from Oxford. PhD in English from Minnesota.  
00:18:05	She had taken a great deal in art and music appreciation somewhere else.  When you studied Dante, you had lecture on Giberti doors, on about Giberti and what the doors symbolize in art, their place in history.  That kind of thing. 
00:18:25	But your major in Psychology was not a major in Sister Annette? 
00:18:35	No. The independent part of it, that she would read on her own more readily in the field.  
00:18:48	Was there already a set of research interests that she had?  When she went to Brown, went fresh?
00:18:58	No. Wrote forty term papers in college, full length, eighteen to twenty page papers with exhaustive bibliographies.  Could write them like paper-writing machine.  Would take file boxes down to public library with outlines for each paper.  Would dredge information out onto file cards and sit down and bat out the final copy on typewriter at once.  You write enough of them, it becomes mechanical. 
00:19:31	Could do it in any subject.  Which was the trouble.  Biggest talent was in field of law.  Turned down law in part because of guidance from father who said women would get nowhere except in law clerk jobs in back room doing support research.  
00:19:58	Law was only subject she didn’t have to study. Could read it once and know it.  Could read legal cases, read through and come to exam, fill it in, no problem.  Turned down English because too easy.  Didn’t have to work very hard to master anything anybody required of her in English courses.  Whether poetry or writing or literature analysis.  Was too easy.  Sorry but this was the perspective of a college senior.  
00:20:48	When it came to that blank on the Brown application, she filled in Psychology, not even knowing different universities emphasize different aspects of the discipline.  Wanted to be clinical psychologist and finds herself in hotbed of behavioristic research psychology, which had no time for clinical anything. 
00:21:15	They scorned it.  They were so desperate for students, it being World War II, and women were being sought after by schools that had been very negative toward their existence prior to those days.  Very glad to get them. 
00:21:35	Five girls in her masters degree class and one man. Although a number of other guys who were ahead of them.  1944. Some guys ahead of them on military exemptions because working on clinical research projects.  Deferred. 
00:22:01	That’s where she met some of today’s famous psychologists.  Many members of that group around that time.  The professors they had up there are the ones whose names are on all the major books. 
00:22:15	Wanted to be a clinician and they pointed out that even if you wanted to be a clinician, you have to take about the same course pattern anyway for a masters degree.  It’s at the third year level and you can always transfer.  Unlike present, desirable pattern was to take your three degrees in three different locations. 
00:22:47	A masters from Brown was a good base from which to move elsewhere and it was not looked askance, what was the matter, like they wanted to get rid of you.  When she left, Walter Hunter told her to always come back.  
00:23:00	What was main influence from Brown?
00:23:08	Several. Walter Hunter was the chairman, when he was there -e spent most of the time in Washington working for the military – believed in liberal arts with a capital L.  Took one look at her college transcript and said it was one of the most excellent humanities and social sciences he had seen.  For free elective, take Math 1 with the freshmen. 
00:23:38	For graduate credit.  Friend Marie was in same program.  Came running in gleeful because she had undergraduate bio-chem major and major in math and all the rest.  He said it was an excellent record in the sciences and that she needed to take American History and Philosophy.  
00:24:11	Each of them had pre-electives elected for every semester they were there. He left nothing to choice.  He was the chairman, officially, of the Psychology Department.  Psych was still a baby science in those days.  Still very young.  He was called upon by federal government to give them guidance on many problems.  
00:24:47	One of them, for example, was the problem of merchant marine shipping that was going down as fast as it was leaving the ports.  Not many people know that we nearly lost the war in the first six months.  Our merchant marine was going out of the harbor and down to the bottom of the ocean.  There was something making those ships terribly visible.  Had big meeting in Washington and they called Walter, among other experts in. 
00:25:21	So he said to look at the ships and see how they’re blacked out.  They had little cups, all the lights so that they wouldn’t be seen, Just little lights poking down this way.  Said these ships are visible for fifty miles.  What’s the problem? Well under low lamination blue has highest visibility and they’re blacked out with blue lights.  Change the light bulbs and put in red ones.  
00:25:58	Red ones.  Everyone knows red’s most visible, beware of the bull, color of danger. It took a command from the President of the United States to make them change the light bulbs.  When they did, the shipping lost its route.  Isn’t that interesting. 
00:26:23	That’s why Walter wasn’t around much of the time.  The Old Doc, as they used to call him.  When he was around, no question he was senior person and chairman.  The real day-to-day acting chairman who carried the title I guess was Harold Schlossberg.  He was also a famous psychologist, one of the classic books on experimental.  
00:25:53	What did you take away from Brown to the University of Pennsylvania?
00:26:59	 He was the one that recognized that she was devoid in the sciences and she not only took math but comparative anatomy in vertebrates, physics one and two. In fact, after she got masters mid-year, he said to stay on and take additional courses.  May or may not transfer.  They were desperate.  Can still remember one administrator commenting that it was at point that schools were competing for graduate assistance.  
00:27:36	Really had a market for your talents.  Didn’t even realize it.  Stayed on a year after.  Got masters in – September graduation and stayed on for a year.  Went on down to Penn afterwards. 
00:27:56	Took rest, took second semester of Math, second semester in Physics, took the seminars in Psychology that were being offered. Was just a TA (teaching assistant).  Assisting.  Grading papers.  Was just nine hours a week. Walter would call you in a intervals to make sure you weren’t being exploited by a professor.  He was very good.  
00:28:28	Tuition was paid for and you had a stipend? Room and board so you could support yourself.  
00:28:32	Oh yes. She was sixty dollars a month before taxes.  You didn’t support yourself in very great style.  I worked part-time at the state mental hospital giving psychological tests to kind of round out the income a little bit.  
00:28:52	You were 23 years old when you went to University of Pennsylvania? How did you pick the University of Pennsylvania? 
00:28:57	Yeah.  Walter called her in one day and asked where she was going, what she wanted to do and if she still wanted to be a clinician.  At that point, yes.  Asked where she wanted to go, where she would like to end up.  If in Catholic circles than do degree at Catholic University.  That’s the feeder.  That is one of the finest programs in clinical psych in the United States. 
00:29:25	At that time they had Verner Moore there who was PhD in Psychology, had MD in neurology and was a Jesuit.  One of them.  He was the one who focused the department and when they build the department, you came out of there trained. 
00:29:52	If she wanted to go to the far west, she could look into the California colleges.  Didn’t want to go to Midwest.  In that case, on East coast, Pennsylvania has the best clinical program.  So applied to Penn and applied to Catholic U and knew someone at Catholic U.  Had board, room, and tuition fellowship.  Just one.  It was allocated to her but director went off to Europe before he signed papers. 
00:30:26	Meantime, Penn came through and offered TA and decent salary, of course, with tuition remission.  Had applied to Michigan, too. Had to make decision and director wasn’t coming back.  View was a bird in the hand so accepted Penn.  
00:30:51	Got down there to find letter followed her and University of Michigan was offering more and a clinical fellowship.  Went and saw chairperson and pointed out little tidbit.  Penn paid on a ten-month basis.  Brown paid on nine-month. Meant lump sum was divided differently.  Didn’t realize she wasn’t getting as much money at Penn.  Said she made a mistake and couldn’t afford it. 
00:31:32	In meantime, Michigan has offered this so going to go to Michigan.  Asked her to give him a day or two to think about it.  Called her in and said if they gave her assistant instructorship, with a higher salary, of course, would she stay?  If  they matched Michigan.  Said sure, save the move if nothing else.  So they matched Michigan. So she stayed. 
00:32:07	Most but not all credits transferred from Brown.  Had to take some of their required courses.  In the course of going through clinical program - which she did complete - found that she had been 	contaminated with research. Well the Brown program really had. 
00:32:31	As she began working – Walter was very much in favor of well-trained clinicians.  He tried to get many of the research guys to take some clinical training.  Said if people like her didn’t do the clinical research on the problems, who was going to do it?  
00:32:48	Not a practitioner trying to make lots of money.  At Penn, took whole VA required program for the Veterans Administration which was only criteria that existed at that time for clinical – courses in the Rorschach, working in practicums over in the hospital, all of that stuff.  Also took the entire program in the experimental because it wasn’t that hard, just strategically selected free electives.  
00:33:22	Did a doctoral presentation in physiological on a problem having to do with normal people.  When she got to end, chairman called her in and asked what she was majoring in and if she wanted an internship.  She said she didn’t because by then had discovered that working n the clinical situation she felt like she was doing surgery with a butcher knife.  
00:33:51	The tools were so crude and there was little in way of solid, research data to get at the clinical art.  No question that clinical practice is an art.  Also no question that when you have an art, part of the art is the personality of that clinician and part of it is an unacknowledged base of information.  
00:34:20	There was no literature to help guide as to which was which.  By that point she decided that she wanted to get a job where she could do research on clinical problems and problems of the normal person coming into psychological difficulties, not necessarily pathology.  There’s nothing like a job in a big mental institution to curb your morbid curiosity about pathology. 
00:34:52	How long were you at Penn?
		Five years. 
00:35:00	She got her degree in 1951.  Went there in ’46.  Part of that was her own fault.  Started doing dissertation on topic which really didn’t interest her all that much.  The topic that interested her was muscle action potentials, the tension in your arm when you work on a problem.  There had been literature and she’d done a term paper on the topic showing there is a direct relationship between the amount of work you do and the amount of tension in your dominant forearm.  And it’s on a gradient.  
00:35:43	The non-dominant forearm shows the same picture but not as much, not as intensely.  Your dominant leg and non-dominant leg, they go in that sequence.  Thought it would be interesting to tie it into a theoretical viewpoint about psychological tension, this being muscular, to see if there was any relationship.  
00:38:06	However, she didn’t have money to pay for fim and the technology was so crude.  In those days you had to set up a camera and photograph	the cathode ray oscilloscope  -that jiggles and jaggles - moved and then get the film developed and then measure the film by hand.  It’s like your approach on the information.  You go the long way around where if it was all on computer – voom!
00:36:39	Today nobody in their right mind would approach a problem on muscle potential in that fashion.  But in those days you did.  Professor who saw here struggling away with this problem that she wasn’t gung ho on asked her what ever happened to her idea on muscle potential. 
00:37:00	She said she gave it up because she didn’t think she could afford to do it.  He said he would see if the department could afford to pay for it.  It could and did.  That’s how she did her dissertation.  She wasted about a year struggling with how to formulate a problem in this other area and not getting anywhere. 
00:37:29	Did you make correlation between muscular tension and the psychological. 
00:37:33	Yeah! Yes, what was interesting was that if you took what was pretty well-established, the muscle tension represents mental work, mental effort. What they found is that when they used egal-threatening instructions – you know, your work on this is going to be put on your record and the dean is going to see it, and your psych professor is going to see it and it’s related to final grades in psychology, and all of this bologna – you could use things like that in those days but you can’t anymore. 
00:38:09	Under that kind of a threatening instruction, they used as a problem some number progressions.  Two-two-four-four.  What comes next?  On easy problems, the egal-threatening subjects works far harder than is necessary to solve the problem.  The task-oriented subject works as hard as they need to.  
00:38:42	When it comes to the extremely difficult problems - and they define difficult as the three professors could solve them using pencil and paper within five minutes, and these subjects have to solve them without pencil and paper.  That was their definition of difficulty.  When it came to difficult problems, the easy people exhibited almost no mental work.  
00:39:17	The task-oriented people worked as hard – much harder – appropriate for the difficulty level of the problem.  Was as though the people who had been egal-threatened just gave up.  That fit the theory on what happens with psychological tension.  That was her dissertation. 
00:39:44	Interestingly enough both groups got the same number rights and wrong.  Time spent on them probably would have shown a difference but she had to curtail the time on the difficult problems to five minutes on the click because of the fact that they were running very expensive movie film.  
00:40:06	Have to remember they were using a thing that was called a decade resistance box.  It was a controlled amount of resistance so that you could use it as a standard on the screen.  You knew -you ran the electricity through a screen and the line jiggled this much – what its equivalent would be if there weren’t the box there.  It was the people they were recording off of.  It gave you a norm. 
00:40:35	Well, this was in the ’40 and in the ’40 that box cost $1000 dollars.  Today you can pick up a decade resistance box for five bucks.  
00:40:50	From that work that you did for your dissertation at the University of Pennsylvania and the other studies you had there, from there you went to army job, right?  What was the chief intellectual carryover? When you went to the Army job, what had you really learned at Pennsylvania that you thought you’d carried along?
00:41:19	What she thought she’d carried along that really worked, first of all, was her course in industrial psychology.  Worked for Navy for a year first.  That carried over in terms of the job analysis and all that stuff.  
00:41:36	When she got down to the Army, there was no carryover in terms of content.  There was carryover in that she knew of statistics, having taught it at Penn.  That was another one.  She was the world’s worst statistician and had not done that well in the courses.  She came in one day to find out that it was Friday and effective Monday morning she would teach statistics. 
00:42:01	She learned statistics the hard way.  
		Why didn’t you go directly into college teaching?  Why did you go to the Navy first? 
00:42:15	There were no jobs.  She was job-hunting and found herself competing with people like Stuart Cook who was chairman at NYU.  She’d go to the interview table and there’s Stuart Cook interviewing on behalf of his graduate students for the few jobs there were. 
00:42:34	There was also an incredible amount of chauvinism. They did not hire women and they would tell you because there was no law that they didn’t have to.  It was extraordinarily difficult.  There were jobs aplenty down at Lackland Airforce Base.  Carol Straussberg used to call that the sinkhole for psychologists.  
00:43:04	She didn’t want to go to Texas.   She wasn’t married.  She and Marvin went together for five years because if they had gotten married, one of them would not have had a degree.  You know which it would have been.  There was a nepotism rule at Penn and it went all the way down to graduate students and if you got married – well they wouldn’t have thrown you out, but she would not have had an assistantship.  
		Is that where you met Marvin, at Penn?
00:43:33	Yep.  
		He was a graduate student at the same time?
		He came in after she was there.  He had two masters degrees.  He got one at Minnesota in public personnel administration.  Then he got a second one in industrial and social psychology along with his doctorate at Penn.  
00:43:54	Even though you both came from Minnesota?
		They didn’t meet until they were at Penn.  
00:44:00	They didn’t get married until they were both out and she was down in Washington.  He was down there by that time, too.  Married in Saint Matthew’s Cathedral.  That’s the great big Roman Catholic cathedral.  It was my parish church.  Monstrous place.  It’s huge.  One thing they had that was lovely was that the side altar where they were married – Marv loved it because it was done in such perfect taste. 
00:44:36	Frequently in cathedrals it’s all this gold and bleeding hearts and stuff.  But this particular altar was a grotto-like effect and the entire back wall was a mosaic in cerulean blue and gold.  And it had a plain, white marble altar.  And up above was a statue of the Virgin done in white marble.  All white. 
00:45:02	Nothing else.  Just stunning from the point of view of art as well as religion.  That had quite a history.  She used to stop off and see the chapel whenever she was in Washington or nearby.  One year she was a consultant for the National Science Foundation on some program and they had them at the Mayflower (Hotel).  So she walked over to see the church. 
00:45:29	She was stunned.  The statue was gone. There was a basket of flowers up there.  Very simple white basket and pretty flowers.  The mosaic was still there and she wondered.  A year later the National Science Foundation called her in so she was down. This overlapped Sunday so she went over to church. 
00:45:53	While she was there she ran into a priest who was out on the steps welcoming the congregation.  She asked him what happened to the statue.  He said it was a tragedy.  A few years ago, someone hid in the church after it was locked up and climbed up and knocked the statue to the ground and broke it into a million pieces on the marble flooring. 
00:46:22	He said fortunately, the sculptor who did the original is still alive and they had taken up a subscription and they had just reached the amount of money they needed to have it re-done.  It will be back in a few years. 

Reuder_02261986_Tape2_A [Reuder_Mary_by_Weidman_Bette_02261986_Pt3]
00:00:16	What were early influences, influences from childhood, family and place where she grew up. 
00:00:44	 Parents.  They’re self-made people.  Father went to St. Paul College of Law for a few courses but never really went to law school. He read law in another lawyer’s office and passed the state bar.  He had a job in a title insurance company as well as private practice on side for a while.  His movement upward at his company came in part because he was the only man who could take shorthand.   The chairman of the board there was a real chauvinist.  He didn’t want women at the board meeting, including secretaries.  So the secretary of the company had to be someone who could tae shorthand.  Her father was the only professional in the place.  That’s what initially got him launched on the corporate ladder.  
00:01:55	That story was told around the house and part of the moral was that all the skills you can get, the better off you are.  You move up by seizing opportunities and also by doing your best at things even if they don’t seem very important at the time, such as taking minutes at a board meeting.
00:02:25	Her mother was a dynamo of an Irish woman.  She flunked geometry in high school and had to go to summer school to finish.  Got an A but flunked during the year.  Finished high school in three years because she took extra credit and extra courses.  
00:02:57	Mother was oldest of nine children.  Not sure of family history but grandpa was sometimes a big fish in a little puddle and sometimes a little fish in a big puddle.  They lived in Morris Minnesota for a while and at that time grandfather ran the general store in town.  The general store in a small town is like running a bank. Her mother had an automobile of her own when she lived in a small town before she came to the city.  
00:03:32	Not sure why they left Morris but they came to Minneapolis where her grandfather was deputy sheriff.  He was deputy sheriff of Hennepin County for many years.   He was also her godfather and she was the first grandchild.  Whenever she wanted something and her parents said no because it was too expensive, she usually got it from her grandfather.  
00:04:01	But never did he go to a store.  He would have thrived in New York.  He went to the pawn shops.  That’s why when she wanted a musical instrument her parents thought was idiotic nonsense, her grandfather trotted off to the pawn shops and found a banjo or uke.  
00:04:28	John Henry McGuire.  He was married to Agnes O’Reilly McGuire.  Her mother was Mary Agnes.  That’s why she uses the ‘e’ in her name to differentiate.  Because otherwise mail and things would get mixed up. 
00:05:03	Bette’s name is Mary Eileen, her mother’s is Mary Agnes.  Was oldest of siblings.   Sister Winnie is about three years younger.  She’s a dietician at University of California San Diego.  
00:05:22	Her sister Margie just retired from teaching learning disabled children in the Minnesota school system on part-time basis. Before she was married, she was a full time teacher of French and English.  She was a French English Drama major who went to Paris on a Fulbright after she graduated and taught English in a Paris high school.  
00:06:00	Her sister Win went to St. Louis for a dietician’s internship and got her ADA.  And then her brother came along, twelve years younger than Bette.  A menopause baby and the only boy in the family so he was spoiled by all of them.  Lee never really went on in education because it took him too long to mature and realize its importance.  He almost didn’t finish college. 
00:06:35	Everything was taken care of comfortably.  He got married after college.  Was ROTC throughout college so they went to Germany and he was a postal clerk for the Army there for about three or four years.  He’s in the banking business in Minneapolis.  He moved up very nicely. 
00:07:02	He’s got an awfully nice manner and is a lot like his father.  Her dad almost never said anything negative about anybody although those around him knew he could. 
00:07:25	Her father was a republican so when it came to politics, they had very little in common. 
00:07:43	She was her grandfather’s godchild, too.  Grandparents did not give presents to all the numerous grandchildren.  For her twelfth birthday she got a case of beer from her grandfather.  
		A case of beer? for your twelfth birthday?
He was always very proud of the fact that she enjoyed liquor. He was a good Irish cop.
00:08:18	He was always whipping out his bottle of old granddad.  When she was a child, there was Prohibition.  This was a disaster.  Beer trucks used to come to the house from the brewery.  They would have near beer but some of the cases of near beer were starred.  The starred cases weren’t near beer. 
00:08:48	She grew up being allowed unlimited near beer and liked the taste of it from about five years old.  It was like soda pop and she liked it.  By the time she was twelve, Prohibition had gone out and since she liked beer so much – her grandfather was out buying liquor to take to his lake house – and he picked up a case for her. 
00:09:20	She wouldn’t let anybody else have it.  Her birthday was in March and she got it over the summer at the lake and he told her it was for her birthday.  People gasp and ask what kind of a family?  But it was nice and she liked it. 
00:09:50	You were the first one to go to college?
00:09:51	There was always stimulation.  Among other things her dad used to go by a department store on his lunch hour and find tables with books.  The got rid of schoolbooks, readers and sold them for a nickel or dime a book.  He would pick up a carton full of readers and send them to his kids.  A package from the store would come addressed to them and full of books.  
00:10:40	She was a speed reader.  Her family didn’t understand why she had books on her Christmas list when she read them in one day.  Why didn’t she just get them at the library?  She pointed out that some books you cherish and you want to read inside out and backwards.  They couldn’t appreciate that. 
00:11:05	The fact that these books came all the time led her to work with Scholastic books when her own children were growing up. She ran into problems because the teacher didn’t want checks but she would put in orders for the whole list.  The teacher didn’t want a check for twenty-five bucks and she didn’t want the kid to carry twenty-five bucks to school.  
00:11:34	She called Scholastic and asked if she could be a school. They agreed so they didn’t buy any more books at school.  She bought them and had them address to the kids at home by the cartonful.  They had zillions of paperbacks on every subject.  She let the kids pick them and inventory them.  They could read anything they wanted. 
00:12:06	She had that idea because her dad did something similar when she was a kid.  Her mother regretted that she didn’t go to college.  Either senior year college or first year of grad school, her mother got permission to take courses at St. Thomas. 
00:12:38	Her mother started taking courses in literature.  Before that she had been member of great books clubs. Her father was a slow reader.  Attorneys usually are.  He would read every word four times to check its meaning. 
00:13:00	It used to take forever.  He couldn’t get over it.  She read War and Peace in three nights.  It was also motivated because it was due on Monday.  And you read through the night.
00:13:24	Her mother kept reiterating that there’s nothing you can’t do if you’re willing to work hard enough.  St. Catherine’s philosophy was that if God gave you the brains you had a moral obligation to society and to give back to society. 
		How did you end up at St. Catherine’s?
00:13:49	Minneapolis was her home.  She won a scholarship at Holy Angels Academy, a school for girls.  She won a scholarship for a year while there and then lost it because she didn’t get straight As.  But she did ace the ACT tests.  
00:14:19	St. Catherine’s was giving out full four year scholarships to anyone who was a valedictorian of their school.  She was shocked to find out about a week before school ended that she was valedictorian.  Her father asked if she could get the scholarship to St. Catherine’s.  She didn’t know. 
00:14:47	She was walking through the school and the principal told her she wanted her to meet someone.  She introduced her to the president of St. Catherine’s and said she was the scholarship student.  
00:15:10	She was that naïve that she didn’t put those things together. She took a number of tests for scholarships in eighth grade and she flubbed a lot of them because of the questions but not because of lack of knowledge.  She was always the youngest and the tiniest and the smallest in the class.  
00:15:35	She started school when she was four and skipped a grade.  As a consequence she was young and very immature.  She’s serious when she tells people that she would have been a C student or flunked out of the kind of institutions Brown and these Ivy Leagues are if it were present day. 
00:16:08	They weren’t the right schools for a student like her.  She was lucky because she wanted to go to university and had had her fill of girls schools.  She was the oldest grandchild.  All her parents’ friends had girls as first children.  The next oldest male was five years younger than she was.  She lived in an all girls neighborhood.  
00:16:37	She was tired of all girls, especially as an adolescent. She wanted to go to university in the worst way.  Her father came home one day and told her he hoped he could afford to send her to St. Catherine’s.  She didn’t want to go but then she won the scholarship and that was fatal. 
00:16:57	When you went there, was it away from home? 
00:16:59	She commuted to St. Paul. 
00:17:10	Winning the scholarship determined where she was going to go to college. It worked out.  There was nothing she could do about it. In those days you were not a free citizen until you were twenty-one and she lived in a sheltered, protected environment. 
00:17:37	She remembers when her sister was allowed to get a job in a department store because she had never been allowed to.   She didn’t ask. She just went and got it and nobody stopped her.  
00:17:52	She thought she should have done something similar but that’s the way it goes. 
		Was religious life important to your family?
00:18:02	They always went to church and their parents were adamant that they attend parochial schools but in retrospect they were probably no better or no worse than the local public schools.  
		Has that continued to be important to you? 
00:18:24	It’s important yes.  
		Didn’t end up in Catholic University circuit the way it might have been predicted. 
00:18:33	On the other hand, Annette was influential.  She was a charter member of the American Catholic Psychological Association.  It went through a number of phases.  It was originally established to introduce secular psychology to Catholic schools and not make it separate.  
00:19:15	The American Catholic Psychological Association also worked to make sure that the people that taught psychology in these Catholic institutions had PhDs in psychology and were not educators from other disciplines.  
00:19:40	They were so effective.  She remembers a trip to Boston where someone stood up and suggested all the Bishops be honorary members and someone stood up and said let them get their own PhDs.  That organization met its objective so effectively that there was no more purpose for it.  
00:20:09	Then they became psychologists interested in religious issues.  Went after membership of a broader base of individuals who were concerned about religion as a variable with behavior.  Then it became a division of the American Psychological Association.  At the moment she is on the ballot but for president for that but doesn’t think she will get it because she doesn’t have enough graduate students but it’s nice to be thought of. 
00:20:42	That was Sister Annette’s influence and the total background.  Even though she doesn’t work in the field she is interested.  She does go to church every Sunday.  
00:21:02	They were taught at St. Catherine’s that there was no conflict between religion and science.  They were even taught the theory of evolution.  If you were going to believe in an omnipotent god, why couldn’t this god have developed a pattern of evolution as a form of creation?  There’s nothing contradictory about it.  Doesn’t say He did or didn’t.  Doesn’t contradict anything. 
00:21:35	It’s no great threat to the belief system. But she did meet anti-Catholic prejudice.  
00:21:51	There was some at Queens.  When she got her PhD she lost a couple of jobs because one of the professors was anti-Catholic.  He had given her straight As in her courses.  Another professor asked he did to her or her to him.  He said not to use him for a reference. 
00:22:18	When she was getting her degree, she had passed the written comps, done the thesis and passed the oral exams and he didn’t want to give her a degree because he didn’t think Catholics could be scientists.  He was overruled by the rest of the faculty. 
00:22:39	That was always latent.  It was made definite at Brown where she was the first practicing Catholic who had ever come through their graduate school, that stayed in the church and in school.
00:22:04	She remembers at Queens that they were having a meeting on curriculum and the issue had to do with Latin as a subject.  People were protesting that they should not accept or teach Latin because it gave an advantage to Catholic school graduates.  
00:23:52	How far out can you get?  Recalled that there was some oversight and they scheduled classes for Christmas Eve.  She didn’t take it lightly as part of the General Studies faculty.  She collected signatures on a petition based on religious discrimination.  She overheard somebody say that they thought that she’d gotten over that years ago. 
00:24:32	Keep your mouth shut and go about your business. 
00:24:41	Weideman remembers period of assertion of anti-Catholic bias n the early ’60.
00:24:53	She knew all about it.  There were three or four professors who had political connections with members of the board of higher education – one was his brother - who were in disciplines – at least one in Art – where PhD was not required but productivity of other kinds was demanded to greater degree if one didn’t have a PhD. 
00:25:34	They got turned down for promotion.  They decided that there must be another reason and it must be religious discrimination so they filed a lawsuit.  Anyone who was known as a Catholic received a dossier on the vital statistics on these four people, all their credentials and so forth.  She wasn’t impressed. 
00:26:29	She called Tom Garvey who was active Dean of the Faculty at that time in between Theobald and Stoke.  Garvey might have been acting President.  There were about five department chairs who were Catholic.  There was too low a number of Catholics in the science departments proportionate to the population. 
00:27:35	The Catholic education had been anti-scientific not because it was against science but because it was cheap education.  Science labs cost a lot of money.  So if they had to short-change anything, it would be in the sciences. 
00:27:57	So if you don’t have many chemistries, you don’t have chemistry classes.  It’s simple. It was like trying to find quality PhD blacks these days.  I’d hire ten tomorrow if I could find them.  
00:28:13	This lawsuit came and they actually sued the college.  City University didn’t exist yet.  Whether they personally tried to sue Margaret (Riley) and Tom (Garvey) she doesn’t know.  They tried to stir things up.
00:28:45	The Brooklyn Tablet, a reactionary rag, bought it all and was writing bigoted articles. She called Tom and asked if he wanted her to write a rebuttal to The Tablet. He said to ignore it. 
00:29:12	They would take what she said and print it out of context so that she would sound worse than them.  So she ignored it but was on receiving end of appeals etc.  Mrs. Stoke said one of the major reasons Harold (Stoke) resigned after a minimum term was because he spent over fifty percent of his time as president either in court or going to and from court.  He felt he couldn’t do anything constructive for the college. 
00:29:57	It was awful.  They made a settlement but the guys did not get the promotion.  They talked about percentages.  Bigotry came up across the board.  Queens was 49% Jewish, 49% Catholic and 1% other.   
00:30:28	All those protestant professors were in disproportionate numbers to the Jews and Catholics.  They should have gone out and looked for Catholic professors.  There were plenty of Jewish professors.  The Jews have always advocated education and are willing to support and pay for it so the population has lots of professors compared to other populations. 
00:31:05	Another group that will match the Jews is the Indians.  They value education. 
00:31:15	How could someone like you maintain a sense of the whole from a position on the School of General Studies? 
00:31:42	She went to all the meetings and was on strategic committees.  When she wanted curriculum changes she volunteered for curriculum meetings and chaired at crucial times.   A curriculum committee is reluctant to vote down something its chairman wants. 
00:32:09	It’s difficult for a department that doesn’t like to go to meetings to turn down what the chairman of the curriculum committee wants.  She was also on the college curriculum committee. 
00:32:33	Glen Howard asked him to attend the college curriculum meetings.  When Glen left Jim Tobin took over and had her stay on. Jim left and Carl took over and Carl had her stay on.  She was on the committee for years and that’s why she knows the history of so many programs.  
00:32:57	They had to go through it – study abroad, foundation, support for Portuguese program.  
00:33:07	This is your version of what your father did by being willing to do nitty gritty work.
00:33:18	It’s a means to an end. 
		You weren’t thinking of gathering power, were you?  What were you thinking?
00:33:31	She wanted to be able to have this program for the students.  You had to grab power of some kind to get it through.  No one was going to give it to her.  They fought tooth and nail.  She had to find a means and the means is usually control of the system. 
00:34:02	Machiavelli. We read The Prince.
00:34:14	So you won your financial battles up until the financial crunch in the ‘70s?
00:34:24	She learned quickly that the School of General Studies had unused power.  Back then all the undergraduates were minors and none of them had a vote.  Their only political power was through their parents.  The School of General Studies, 90% of its students had votes.  She recognized this potential. 
00:35:02	Glen sat back and was hands off and didn’t want to know.  She ordered all classes into Remsen 105 many times and said it is against the law for her to try to persuade them to do anything.  But she did tell them what was effecting their education, that the City Council was not coming through with money and that it would effect their evening courses.  Someone needed to persuade them.  
00:35:51	They were sensitive to votes and the students were all registered voters and if they weren’t they should be.  A number of colleagues asked to speak to them and she would leave and say she didn’t know what they were going to say. 
00:36:10	Then the students would go in there and get petitions and voter registration going and the City Council never knew what hit them.  The kids would organize teams, sit on council meetings and speak.  The fought and one time they were there until two in the morning testifying.  
00:36:36	Right up to the Murphys’.  Their budget was always the first to be attacked. 
00:36:53	Jim Tobin called and said he didn’t know what she was doing but to call off the dogs. Another time Alan Margolis called from Registrar and said they got a call that asked if 8,000 petitions from the police department is enough.  
00:37:28	She marshaled the borough of Queens there. 	
00:37:39	At the end they had about 2000 enrollees and 300 majors.  It was a big operation, especially when they had the two-year and the four-year programs.  At one point there were fifty-six sections of psychology 1.  That’s a lot of students. 
00:38:05	They tried to keep it to thirty students to a section.  They did creep up. 
00:38:23	She had various titles but they left her alone to run it.  At the end she thinks she was an assistant chairman. Originally, they invented different titles to protect her role running it because the department chairman was really in charge.  But Gregory told her it was her baby and to do what she wanted.  So she did. 
00:38:44	When Schoenfeld came along as chairman, he didn’t like that.  He tried to get her fired.  But Jim Tobin was her dean then and Jim wasn’t about to let anyone go.  It was being viewed as a role model on how to build the rest of the school. 
00:39:07	Then Rubin Bergreen in music saw what she had done and was busy building the music department to the same level.  At the end, you (Weidman) came along and joined with the English department.  You get those three departments going and you get a strong movement. 
00:39:35	But you had a real battle on your hands? 
00:39:44	The day session and faculty were seriously threatened all along.  They didn’t like that their decision on night session lines was not final and that Dean Tobin’s was. They couldn’t hand-pick faculty. 
00:40:12	She could hand-pick. They didn’t like that she had the power to select a faculty of forty to fifty people and determine pay scale and assign duties and all the rest.  
00:40:30	Toward the end, a couple of times, the School of General Studies people were so numerous and they were so divided that they almost got her elected chairman of the department.  Their perception was that she would be intolerant of any other program in the department. 
00:40:53	They could never understand – up until she was elected chairman – that you can give your all to something without giving your soul to it. You can giver her something to work on and she will fight for it. 
00:41:17	Move her to somewhere else and she will fight for that. It isn’t your sole perspective in life.  If you have to fight so hard and so vehemently and so consistently, this perspective comes up. This has been one of her handicaps at Queens. 
00:41:35	When she was elected chairman, it was only because opposition was wanted less.  Since she had been in SGS for five years now, maybe it would be alright.  
00:42:05	It was her baby.  She had to take care of it. 
00:42:17	For at least ten years, she realized that that program was viewed as Mary Reuder’s department and not a psychology department at night. She had a lot of people because she asked the dean for appointments to people who would be willing to be trained and take it over and lead it further. 
00:42:45	She pointed out that when that happened, she would take a sabbatical and move back to the day session to allow the person to work freely.  She didn’t want to just up and leave because she had seen the lousy administration that came in when you elected any Tom, Dick or Harry – no matter how nice – to be chairman with no training, no nothing. 
00:43:19	So your effectiveness made the program seem like it belonged to you? 
00:43:31	The other thing is they never believed that she was trying to train someone because couldn’t understand that she would give it up. Part of problem.  Hard to find someone willing to do it. 
00:44:07	A similar thing happened with the major.  She took over from Greg and began offering courses. They didn’t have anybody to teach them.  The kids were majoring in Reuder instead of psych.  Then she asked for more people because she didn’t want the students majoring in one professor as she had experienced in undergrad.  
00:44:39	What was your big contribution to the Psychology Department at Queens. 
00:44:58	There were two.  One was building the School of General Studies so it became a national model.  She used to get telephone calls asking what the policies were and how she did it.  During the 1970s she had an interview for a vice president for the equivalent school at Temple. 
00:45:38	One of the things that had them interested was that they knew her work.  They wanted her to have the job and come back and interview. Over the weekend, the vice president who had her hand-picked was fired and that was the end of that. 
00:46:09	The other achievement was the year as chair of the whole department.  Within one year she got a shared proposal for development of an undergraduate lab. She got a shaping of the undergraduate experimental requirement through and she got a new masters program through the college. 




 [Reuder_Mary_by_Weidman_Bette_02261986_Pt4.wav]

00:00:40	Mary notes that as a psychologist you have the opportunities to learn about problem-solving, thinking, and discipline. Other fields such as geology won’t get these opportunities to problem solve. But, they have their own opportunities.
00:01:32	She says when students are a freshly graduate from college, they don’t know how to use their resources wisely. 
00:02:47	Mary talked about one guy that she talked to. He told her there’s a scholarship for historians. Most faculty members never knew this existed. 	 00:03:56	She says there are people who won’t profit no matter what you do for them. They just don’t want to work. You have to face their reality. 
00:04:45	Mary says you can’t predict human behavior. They can change at any time. 
00:10:10	Mary talks about the project that involved the blind students. It was located in Pennsylvania. A blind student came up to her and asked her if she could take her psychology class for credit. Mary welcomed her. She got tools to braille parts of the human brain so the blind student could learn.
00:13:10	She talks about her general ideas of research in psychology. Her research brings together the physical with the psychological functions. Mary talks about her thesis.  She says why she took certain classes and why she took courses in medical school.
00:17:00	Mary talks about how she taught her psychology class and what techniques she used to teach. 
00:19:27	They had no lab and no equipment. 
00:21:20	Mary had her students do research of their own instead of giving them step by step questions.
00:24:30	She notes that her research really requires her to have a lab because it was necessary to explain the data. 
00:28:30	Departments didn’t have enough funds to afford the materials needed. 
00:37:30	Mary talks about universities that want to be first class but they are lacking in resources and support.
00:38:09	Mary notes that it’s very unsatisfying experience and that she doesn’t miss teaching at all. She wasn’t given the equipment that students needed participate and enjoy the class. Instead she had to do it all herself.  “Why bother anymore? They don’t care.” There was no reward at all.
00:40:05	She talks about how the shape of her career up to this point conforms to her earlier expectations and how it differs. Mary notes that much of it was reacting to events. She wanted to get a college degree and get a job. She wanted to teach from the beginning. That’s what she loved. 	
00:45:00	If she wanted to start again, she would get a degree in academic administration.	