A little bit through grade school and a bit during high school I lived over on 25th Road, with 21st Street.  I had a lot of friends who went to Our Lady of Mount Carmel grammar school, so I always hung out in that area.  Everything in that area seems new.  I miss the houses though.  Over here on 37th Street going towards 31st Avenue, round the corner from Associated Supermarket, you used to have these gorgeous Victorian houses, with like the wrap around porches.  TheyÕre all gone.  There are four story apartment buildings in their place.  Astoria is still very family-oriented but there is something about the old families.  Round here was very Greek and Italian.  So you had all the grandmas wearing black, who were widows, wearing blackÉIÕm an old soul so I think thatÕs what it is, I just like the old stuff.    My mum was born in the city.  Where Lincoln Center is now, there used to be a big housing complex.  My mom was born there.  My grandmother and my Dad and all of my DadÕs side of the family came from Puerto Rico, so my momÕs like first generation and IÕm second generation.  Once my grandma got displaced from over there, they moved to Queensbridge.  So mom spent the rest of her childhood in Queensbridge.  Even that whole area has changed too.    Overall, the change is good.  And the nice thing is that it has always been family oriented.  Unfortunately as my son is now six, I never took advantage of all the new mommy and me programs that have come into the area Ð thatÕs really all just happened in the last four years. I started getting into organic living and things in 2003.  I got into essential oils and aromatherapy, and it kind of just took off from there.  You learn about that and you learn that you can put it in your productsÉand you realize ah, you can make your own products, though it took me a while to actually start soap making - I was terrified.  I could read all the booksÉbut I needed someone to show me how to do it.   I took a class finally and realized ÒthatÕs how you do itÓ Ð a class with Ursula Basch, who runs a school called Herbal Bear.  She has a beautiful school up in the Catskills area but also teaches in her small Manhattan apartment.  IÕve worked since I was 13, starting in the stores along Steinway.  Like the movie theater which is now New York Sports Club and Duane Reade, that used to be a movie theatre, the really old View way Astoria.  Actually I was working there illegally at first because I was thirteen, and you can only get your working papers at 14.  I always worked full time, went to school full time.  I still work now.  I work in child welfare so I do foster care-related work.  I still have to do that to pay the bills!  Soap does well but it will really take a while before I can make this my fulltime gig.  I used to work directly with the foster kids; you know helping them get housing, employment, college, that stuff.  Now IÕm on the teaching end, so I train the staff who work with the kids; itÕs really about teaching them how to like teenagers!  Teaching them how to work with teenagers, and itÕs funny because IÕm thinking I donÕt really like teenagers any more.   He [my son] is going to go away to college, I hope, heÕs going to do everything that I didnÕt have a chance to do.   So really I do the soap making at night, you know.  HeÕs a good kid, and he goes to bed early, around 8 oÕclock.  So then IÕm mixing and stuff.  Originally this was his bedroom (soap making room).  And then this room used to be my room and I converted it into his bedroom.  I figured I needed to create some space so I could make products.  ItÕs hard if you keep your stuff for it in one room and do your mixing and cooking in another room.   So I figured its part of growth and part of what you do, to make it happen.  So now I just sleep wherever I fall asleep, either on the sofa, or with my son.    There are days when I just want me-time, I donÕt want to do thisÉbut then the reality is I love it.  And it really helps that heÕs a good kid, I donÕt need to worry about him getting into things. ItÕs also good that my mom lives upstairs, so when heÕs getting restless I can just send him upstairs for a bit, you know.  But pretty much during the day at work IÕll go online at lunchtime and work on some recipes, so IÕll do some of my soap-business stuff at work.  Then at home when heÕs asleep I start mixing and everything.  I use five main ingredients: Olive oil, coconut oil, sweet almond oil, shea butter and cocoa butter.  ThatÕs pretty much it.  I actually think I might change it though to eliminate the cocoa butter, because partly because itÕs getting a bit expensive and I donÕt want to raise my prices.   I think just like a baker, you always want to experiment with new stuff.  So for two years now IÕve kept the same recipe and now I feel like I can move on.    All of my colorants are spices and botanicals.  The aromas are all essential-oil based and stuff.  Sometimes it can limit you when you try to keep everything natural but I donÕt want to be one of those soapers (soap makers) who make 150 different bars of soap.  I like the small, quality control piece. At the moment itÕs pretty much my friends who buy them, and sometimes my colleagues; also, people who follow me on Twitter and Facebook.  I also do wholesale to a woman out in Long Island, actually in Shelter Island, a whole food store Ð apparently all the people in Shelter Island love my stuff.    I do want to grow it.  But IÕm very clear that I donÕt want a retail location.  My dream is to have a nice little spot in Long Island City or Astoria right by the water (I like water Ð even if itÕs just a big window facing the water IÕd be happy.), where I can just produce my stuff.  I could hire some local people.  And IÕd really like to have some kind of internship program for young people, so that at least over the summer they can learn how to make soap, and also about business Ð you know, shipping, and packaging, calling clients, all that stuff.  I think there is a growing interest in green living etc. in Astoria.  But a couple of the events IÕve done Ð maybe because it was a year or two ago Ð sometimes people see it and understand it, but may not want to purchase it.  They think wow, five dollars for a bar of soap?  You know.  But recently I havenÕt done any of the local events in the past year.  I know that Astoria Market has things going onÉ  Brooklyn itÕs definitely taken off.  TheyÕre huge on the indy-craft-fair kind of stuff.  In Astoria weÕre still kind of getting there.  Astoria Events was the best one, and now Astoria Market.  And I saw Agora LIC or something like that.  But in some ways itÕs still untouched. The process of making soap is pretty cool.  When youÕre mixing the lie and the oils together and then you just see it all come together.  I used parsley powder to make the soap green.  ItÕs like making a cake.  Then you scoop it out and put it in the mold.  ItÕs like ÒperfectÓ! My mom got laid off a year ago.  But sheÕs a crafter Ð she makes wall pieces and quilt pieces and things Ð IÕve been starting her off on selling some things.  Since she was 16 she was knitting, crocheting, sewingÉand thatÕs not me.    There used to be a bridal store on Steinway.  That was fun, being a junior and senior in high school and working in a bridal shop, seeing all the brides coming in for their fitting.  And thinking "Oh - thatÕs the dress I want for my wedding".  Of course, when I got married I wore nothing that I thought I would end up wearing.  And the movie theater was fun.  I donÕt remember actually watching the movies because I was always the one making the popcorn or selling the tickets.  But IÕm not a movie person anyway. I also worked at New York and Company when it used to be [É].   And a couple of supermarkets, you know typical high school stuff.    Then I discovered working in the city in retail and making more money, and never worked in Astoria shops again!  I worked in the city from that point on.  In 1997 when I graduated from college I did the usual send out 100 resumes, hope and pray somebody calls you.  Somebody did, and I had no idea what was involved Ð I interviewed and got hired and was like ok, social worker to a girlsÕ group home.  But it worked; I found my passion really quick.  Now and then I miss working with the kids.  But IÕm well aware that IÕm not as young as I used to be Ð IÕll be 39 in a couple of months.  I like the piece IÕm doing now anyway which is getting information to workers Ð IÕm more like a resource person.  ThatÕs in Manhattan.  Technically I work for the state on contract but IÕm based out of the School of Social Work for Hunter CUNY.  ItÕs a job, and paying the rent and the bills.  And my boss is a real big supporter of my business, which is great Ð sheÕs like if you need to run some errands in the morning, donÕt worry about it, just let me know.  But I donÕt take advantage of that.  My herbs I get them all from Oregon.  Only because Mountain Rose herbs has the best quality.  Their stuff is so fresh.  Even though I did discover thereÕs an herb farm in upstate New York that IÕm going to visit in a couple of weekends.  If that works for me, then that just might be my more local resource for herbs and stuff.  My oils, I was getting them from a company in Ohio, because thatÕs where most of the suppliers are, but IÕm going to switch to a company in Boston. I really try to get everything in New York, as closely as possible.  Luckily thereÕs a great supplier of lye up there (the old-fashioned draino Ð used saponify the water).  And the packaging I try to get it within New York.  But itÕs interesting because there are not as many suppliers on the East Coast as on the West Coast or the Midwest.    That forces me to really work hard to find local suppliers, and then once I find them, I stick to them.  As a matter of fact I have a friend whoÕs a carpenter and was recently unemployed.  I commissioned him to make me a soap drying rack Ð just like in every profession you become obsessed with the equipment, having the best etc.  I was looking at some but they were so expensive.  And then he did this for me in a couple of weeks.  When he delivered him yesterday I wanted to hug him, I was so happy, so elated.  He couldnÕt really understand it but I was like Òno, trust meÓ, this is a soap makersÕ dream.  The way you feel about the Yankees is the way I feel about this.  It takes about 4-6 weeks for the soap to dry anyway, a place where you can aerate them.  This has 14 shelves and they fit about 12 soaps each.  And itÕs on wheels so I can move it if I need to.  Before - I put the soaps around the apartment, using cookie racks and things.  But then itÕs like you move them around the place.  I just wanted one space.   I have a bunch of soap-making friends in California, in South Carolina, in Ohio. ItÕs a great industry.  People are so willing and open to share, to critique your stuff.  ThereÕs not really any envy Ð itÕs all about supporting and helping each other.  ThereÕs a handful in New York Ð but there are still so many in NY that donÕt know of each other.  I manage a Yahoo group of soap makers Ð but I only let people who have their own business to join, otherwise they just want to steal our stuff to set up their businesses.    Typically itÕs all women.  I can think of maybe five guys.  They tend to be the chemistry people, who really understand the chemistry of soap making.  So I read their books and try to understand because itÕs important to know as much about the business as you can.  And they make the equipment.  And they are typically married to somebody in the group!  I totally want to stay in Astoria.  ThereÕs a part of me thatÕs an upstate girl, IÕve fallen in love with [É.]  Ð part of me would love to have my own garden there and stuff, but thereÕs still  a big piece of me thatÕs like I canÕt say I make it in Astoria.  And I really think itÕs possible to get a warehouse space, thereÕs so much in long Island City and here.    You donÕt really need a huge space.  But something enough where I can be comfortable, produce, have a staff room, things like that.  And just get my stuff out there.  And have the opportunity for people to come in and take tours etc. ItÕs also very artsy down there. At La Guardia Community College theyÕre doing great stuff supporting local artists and stuff.  My son is called Juan.  When I get orders heÕll come in and say you need some organization, he likes to organize.   