My name is Abdul.  For a living right now I work as a bartender in the Marriott hotel, near La Guardia airport.  This particular place IÕve lived in for four and a half years.  IÕve been in Astoria 15 years. I love Astoria.  ItÕs very convenient.  Before I lived in Brooklyn and it was a long way away.   ItÕs quiet as well.  And now itÕs got a lot less quiet though.  A lot of people are moving here from Manhattan, particularly.  The area up around Steinway has changed a lot.  I was working in real estate in Florida for a long time.     I enjoy working as a bartender and I get enough money to get by.  I am from Morocco originally.   I moved to the United States 26 year ago.  I like it here though now.  IÕm planning to move here in Astoria though to 21st street just around the corner in the new building. IÕm waiting for a friend of mine to come down from Boston.   I love going to have my breakfast up in the park, take my car up there.  Man I love that place!  I have two kids in Florida but IÕm divorced, and they live with their mother, whoÕs from Brooklyn New York.  Sometimes I go back home to Morocco, where I have a brother.  I like to travel.  I just came back recently from a trip, I was away about six weeks.  I went four weeks to Morocco and two weeks to Spain.  IÕm from a small town in East Morocco, a very French part of the country, because the North is much more Spanish, South is French and North is Spanish.  I read about the police stuff [a story reported in Associated Press about a New York Police Department surveillance program focused on Moroccans Ð not because of any specific allegations against individuals but in order to build up a detailed picture of the cityÕs Moroccan community, in support of the governmentÕs anti-terrorism efforts].  ItÕs part of whatÕs going on in the world, the past decade.  A lot of people are getting confused.  ItÕs part of whatÕs going on.    WhatÕs happening in the Middle East now, in Egypt etc. Ð I am optimistic that everything will be alright.  ItÕs like the sky, one minute itÕs all cloudy and the next minute itÕs clear.  They needed to get rid of those bad guys whoÕd been there, for 30, 40 years.  That makes no sense.  You need a system like here, very four years if you donÕt like whoÕs in charge you get rid of him.  And really these people were here for a lifetime.  And now thereÕs a new generation who donÕt buy those things.  They want change.  ThatÕs right, it came from within.  Economy: some bad apples have made things bad for everything.  Things go up, and things go down.  Everywhere there are houses going down and new ones going up.  This one where we are sitting is going to be knocked down and made into apartments.  ItÕs good business for the owners.  People smell the money and they see people moving in.  ItÕs not easy to find an apartment.  Ten years ago when I moved here everything was for rent, for rent, but now itÕs hard to find a place.  The one opposite had two families in it.  And theyÕve rebuilt like 14-16 apartments.    When I was living in Brooklyn I thought that no-one wanted to live here.  Before I had a friend who lived here who said come on over, Manhattan is just over the river.  ThatÕs where I worked all the time.  ItÕs partly what people think of Queens. Astoria has history, waves of immigration.  I worked in an Irish restaurant in Manhattan - thatÕs where I worked - more quiet here than in Manhattan, and Manhattan is business, everyoneÕs all about businessÉhere people are more relaxed.    