My name is Carlos Sanclementi.  I am the owner of this place [Astoria Billiards].  I bought it in 2004, thatÕs to say about seven years ago.  For 25 years I worked in an American import and export company.  When I left, I took some vacation then bought this place.  Twenty-five years I was there.  I was the supervisor of one of the departments.  It was a relative of my wife, he was the owner here.  He had got a bit tired and didnÕt want to carry on.  So he said, ÒCarlos, how about you buy the business from me,Ó and I said, ÒSure.Ó  My wife agreed.   IÕm from Cali in Colombia.  I came to the states in Õ66.  I donÕt go back to Colombia much because now I donÕt have many relatives there.  But IÕm thinking of making a trip because I have a few properties, a few houses there.  ThereÕs an agency that looks after them, and given itÕs now eight years since IÕve been I want to see how they are.  I want to see if everything they say they are doing in their letters, they are really doing!  The best thing about working here is that no-one is managing me.  I manage myself.  I make the decisions myself Ð and my wife as well of course because we work together.  ItÕs much better than when I worked for 25 years hearing ÒCarlos, can you do this for me, Carlos, you have to do that.Ó  This guy [standing nearby] is waiting for me so I can play a game of billiards with him.  Whenever the clients come and thereÕs no-one for them to play with, they play with me.  Because if not, they wouldnÕt come back!  My wife is always there working behind the bar and I am in the office Ð I donÕt know anything about what she does, and nor she about what I do.    We open at two in the afternoon and never know when weÕre going to close.  If there are five tables playing at two in the morning, I canÕt go and tell them to leave Ð because they wouldnÕt come back.  We have two shifts, one from two to ten pm and one from then till we close.  One of my wifeÕs sisters and a friend come to do the night shifts.    For the most part the clients are American and Mexicans as well.  And yes, there are some who come every day - every day to play. 