Rachel Sassone is a lifelong resident of Queens. She is currently a Queens College undergraduate. In this interview Rachel reflects on family life, her family values, religious background and education. She discusses her multi-ethnic background (Korean and Argentinean) cultures and how they impacted her while growing up.  She goes onto discusses Queens as a community of diversity and faith. 


00:00:40          Rachel Sassone is grateful for the diversity in her community. Queens from her experience is one of most diverse in the city’s boroughs. 

00:00:2:40     Rachel discusses Family dynamic. She grew up with three siblings and   comes from a multicultural background. Rachel’s father passed away when she was seven years old. That was an experience she will never forget. 

00:00:4:44     Rachel is currently studying early childhood education at Queens College and she remarks that it wasn’t her first choice. She explored many other majors. She loves art, working with people and has thought about entering the social work profession. All these desires lead to her choosing to be an educator. She wants to give back to the community. 

00:00:9:26   Rachel identifies as Christian. She believes that Christianity is not just a religion but she views it is also having a relationship with God. She also comments it is more important to be righteous than religious. 


00:00:16:20   Rachel shares about how experience growing up in a multi-ethnic family and how often it made her feel alienated because the way the society has a binary understanding of nationalities, race, and ethnicity. She recalls feel uncomfortable and confused when she had to speak in class about race and ethnicity. 



00:00:21:30  Rachel states that the solution to cultural division is being unified within the church. When unity is done the right way under the authority of God it can bring everyone together. Rachel has faith that God’s love which is found in the Bible can unite people under God’s authority. She also mentions that outside the church there's groups that bring unity such as sport teams, talents etc. 



