Ms. Barbara Scott was from Virginia and had to raise her daughter by herself when her husband abandoned them. Barbara is a public speaker and throughout the interview discusses and compares how young boys and girls think about, feel about, and form relationships. She compares how this process has changed and evolved since she was young. She continues this conversation by talking about her broken heart story. She also gives her personal opinion on topics such as her thoughts on the commercialism in American holidays.  00:00:20 Barbara ScottÕs had her heart broken when her husband abandoned her and their daughters. Ms. Barbara Scott was originally from Virginia and had to raise her daughter without their father.  00:04:16 Early in her life, she didnÕt want to get married because she wanted to take care of her daughters and didnÕt want any strangers raising them. Over the time, she met different people and has male friends but did not want to get married because she wanted to be independent. 00:06:57 Ms. Barbara Scott fell in love during high school. The boy she felt in love went to the army and died and discusses how nowadays kids in schools are too into being in relationships instead being focused in school and education. 00:09:04 As a political activist, Ms. Barbara Scott has a problem with American holidays because she feels the calendar is very Euro-centric. She says that slaves were the first demographic to give America their elite economy status and discusses how the holidays are all about money.  00:13:11 She talks about how the media is a bad influence to young kids and how back in their time the person who they are dating had to meet their parents and introduce them to your parents. She also discusses how girls should be disciplined nowadays and that America is in decline. 00:18:43 She talks about her trip to Ethiopia which lasted eighteen days. She talks about her experience there. She spent time in Ethiopia co-producing a show where she interviewed people.  