My name is Lynne Serpe and we are at Two Coves Community Garden in Astoria.  It was once a vacant lot.  There was an idea of turning it into a park but then the money dried up.  But local people decided that well, if we turn it into a community garden then we donÕt need to worry about the money because we maintain it.  That was in 2006/7.  I got involved in January of 08. At that time we had about 10 or 12 people.  At the end of the 08 season we had about 80.  And by the end of 09 season we had about 150.  And today we have around 250 people gardening.    We have 130 individual plots, and then we have a community plot where people garden together, thatÕs where people garden who may be on the waitlist, or who donÕt have the time or energy to maintain an individual plot.  Or we bring in groups from schools, from churches.  Between the individual plots where you can have1-4 people or even more, and the community plot we have at least 250 people gardening.  ItÕs an incredibly diverse garden.  In 2009 when we last counted there were about 40 different languages spoken in the garden.  And if you walk around you can kind of guess which plot might belong to letÕs say Bangladeshi gardeners, or Caribbean gardeners they have callaloo, choy, things like that.  This garden has a lot of sunshine.  There are only a few trees that were put in by the parks department when they were thinking of turning it into a park.  As a garden, we prefer not to have too many trees, because sooner or later they grown and cast shade, not just on your plot but the person next to you.    Also we donÕt own our space.  We are a Green Thumb licensed community garden, so we get a license through Green Thumb (a division of the Parks Department). People get a plot and become members.  They are expected to maintain their plot and renew every year.  We also ask people to do a couple of volunteer hours a month, mainly working on the common areas.    ThereÕs a suggested donation of $20 for the season.  Our plots are at least 100 square feet.  When we first started, some of the early gardeners had much larger plots, but as weÕve gotten more and more popular, we passed a rule around 2008 for plot standardization towards approximately 100 square feet.  WeÕre also an odd size.  WeÕre a triangle.  So some of the plots might be long and narrow, like six by sixteen Ð it really varies.    We have about 150 people on the wait list.  Myself and another gardener are on the plot allocation committee.  I just spent this whole first part of the year from March through to a couple of weeks ago taking about 30 people off the wait list.  So that will be around another 50-70 people gardening this year because, usually each plot has more than one person using it.  During our renewal process it usually means that people have moved, or become too busy.  The most common reason is that they have moved.  The second most common reason is if they have had a child and are too busy.   I planted a blueberry plant this year and have already had some blueberries.  I also have strawberries, a lot of herbs so basil, thyme, oregano, lavender, rosemary.  IÕve also grown stevia this year for the first time.  Four different types of lettuce Ð red, mizuna, green.  I have carrots, eggplant, tomatoes, squash, beans, and a whole bunch of marigold.  100 square feet, you can really pack a lot in there.   I am a freelance contractor.  My main contract in the area is the Queens library.  I run a Greening Libraries Initiative.  One of the many parts of that is that we have planted three gardens at libraries in Queens.  The Astoria Branch Library on Astoria Blvd. and 14th, the Steinway Library up by Ditmars and the Woodside library over by 55th.  The first two have their own courtyard, and at the Woodside Library weÕve partnered with the parks department and itÕs a triangle across the way.  So volunteers, kids etc.  At Astoria the theme is a Shakespeare garden Ð so everything weÕve planted is mentioned in works of Shakespeare.  At Steinway itÕs more of a shade garden, because thereÕs a lot of shade.  WeÕve planted a lot of root vegetables like carrots, turnips and beets and radishes.  Things that donÕt necessarily need 8 hours of sun a day.  And then Woodside is a butterfly garden, so we chose colorful flowers that would attract lots of butterflies.   I first moved here in 1994 and lived at 37th Street and 31st Ave.  IÕve come and gone over the years but always pretty much in the 31st Ave, 30th Ave area, and usually in the 30s.  Because IÕm a contractor, a lot of the time I have jobs in other parts of the country or even in other parts of the world.  A lot of my work in the past has been political campaigns [in 2009 Lynne stood as a Green Party candidate for the NY City Council].  And I worked for the New Zealand parliament for a couple of years.  So I am with a lot of campaigns and that takes me out of town for six months at a time.  Then I come back because I love Astoria.    The people are great.  I love the food and diversity.  Also it has a good balance between the old and new residents.   I grew up in Long Island (my parents had grown up in Brooklyn and moved out when they were older) in a family with not a lot of money, so I first came to the gardening/green living thing as a way to deal with limited resources.  Then I found that I really enjoyed gardening and getting my hands dirty.  I enjoy eating the food that I grow.  And here in particular I enjoy the community that IÕve met and the friends that I have made.    I also like to feel that IÕm contributing to the community.  This was an abandoned lot and there were things associated with that.  And now itÕs this beautiful oasis in the middle of Astoria.  It provides a place for hundreds of people to grow their own food, get some exercise and be outside in the sun.  The number of kids in the gardenÉitÕs so much fun watching them play and watering - and when they get to pick a fresh strawberry.     With my first chance when I graduated from college I moved back to the city.  I moved to Astoria.    