Yuan Shi was born in the Hubei Province, People’s Republic of China (PRC), in 1937. She came to the US in 1982 as a visiting scholar at multiple universities across the US. She officially migrated to the US in 1991 and joined her daughter in New York. Yuan recalled her childhood memories in China and spoke about her family background and education. After migrating to the US, Yuan attended college and lived in Missouri before coming back to New York in 1996 and lived with her family in Elmhurst, Queens. She later moved to Jamaica with her husband. In this interview, Yuan described her involvement in the Chinese community and the church groups she joined as well as her daily life at the Golden Eagle Senior center in Flushing.  00:00:39 Yuan Shi was born in 1937, Hubei Province, China. Yuan explains how her family left Hubei and moved to Shanghai when she was a baby during the Sino-Japanese War. 00:02:04 Yuan Shi’s mother, Mingluan Shi, came from Zaoyang city, Hubei Province. She attended a Christian junior high school in Hankou, and later studied at the Peking Union Medical College. Mingluan’s classmate is Zhonghan Bi's younger sister, who later became the matchmaker between Mingluan and her husband. After they graduated, Mingluan and her classmate opened a medical clinic in Shanghai. At the same time, Zhonghan Bi introduced Yuan’s father, Yuzhang Shi, to Mingluan. The couple later got married. 00:03:31 Yuzhang Shi (Yuan Shi’s father) returned to Shanghai after studying aboard in Japan beginning looking for a job. Because he had the language skills in Chinese, English, and Japanese, he quickly obtained a job with the postal office. He worked at the postal office until he retired. 00:03:58 Yuan talks about her father’s family and education background. Yuzhang, at age 14, followed his cousin Zhonghan Bi and migrated from the countryside in the Anhui province to Shanghai. He resided in a youth school. In 1918, Yuzhang went to study engineering in Japan with his cousin at age 18. Two years later in 1920, Yuzhang protested the Japanese government with other Chinese students in Japan and was arrested. Protest and strikes were held in overseas in Shanghai demanding the Japanese government to release the students. Yuzhang was released after a week and he came back to Shanghai. 00:05:50 Yuan’s father came from Anhui province, Shouxian old city, a big landlord family. He received a solid good education background from a private tutor. 00:06:32 Mother’s education from religious schools in Hubei. Yuan recalls memories about mother during the Cultural Revolution. 00:07:20 Childhood memories in Shanghai and father’s work at the postal office. Even though salary was lower, Yuan’s father refused to work for Japanese.  00:08:24* Yuan recalls her mother always humming songs while patching and sewing garments for her three brothers. Yuan fell in love with the songs and asked her mother about the song. Her mother told her the song came from this big book and promised to teach Yuan when she grows up, but her mother never told her what it was. Yuan later found out the song was a Christian hymn and the book her mother referred to was the bible. Her mother couldn't tell her back then because religious belief was sensitive in China at that time. 00:10:00 Yuan explains how Christian religion affected mother’s life. Yuan’s mother was a Christian; she was honest, friendly, and hardworking. Her patients and neighbors all loved her. She treated poor patients for free and gifted them medicine. After she gave birth to Yuan’s older brother, she closed her clinic and began taking care of her family because she knew that family is her priority. 00:10:57 Yuan’s impression about her father. He was a very scrupulous and honest person. He had high expectations for his children. 00:12:30 Yuan had interest in art, but her father did not want her to take any risks due to the political climate in China at the time. 00:13:10 Yuan’s older brother Tao Shi was enrolled at the Tongji University. After he finished his freshmen year in college, he was interested in joining the volunteer personnel in the military, but Yuan’s mother worried. Despite parent’s object, he joined the military and graduated from the Harbin Engineering University. Yuan’s second older brother, Dong Shi, attended Tongji University and remained at the university as a professor. Yuan’s third older brother, Liu Shi, studied chemical engineering and graduated from Tianjin University. 00:14:09 Yuan Shi attended Tongji University and studied about bridges. After two years into college, the Shanghai government began promoting the two bombs one satellite policy and encouraged a group of students to study physics, Yuan was one of them. After graduating, Yuan remained in Tongji University and became a physics professor. 00:15:50 Yuan’s student came to NY and visited her at the NY Golden Eagle Senior Center. 00:17:30 Yuan’s father’s cousin, Zhonghan Bi, continued to study abroad in the UK and the Soviet Union after Japan. He became a professor at the Shanghai Jiao Tong University after returning to China. He later became the vice principal at the Xi’An Jiao Tong University. 00:19:05 Yuan talks about her mother’s childhood. Mingluan’s mother passed away when she was young, her uncle took care of her until junior high school. After that, she began her study at a medical school operated by French. 00:22:00 Yuan’s parents left their family and studied elsewhere, so Yuan’s family relation only has her uncle as her relative. Yuan had clear social relations. Because of that and the fact that Yuan studied physics, she was working with PRC’s national security and scientific research team. She was also involved in multiple research studies related to nuclear explosion-proof structure, monitoring structural strength in craft at sea, conventional explosive reactions in the mountains, etc. 00:27:08 During the Cultural Revolution, those who were landlords, rich farmers, anti-revolutionary, criminals, and right winged influence were not allow to work with national defenses. 00:28:40 Memories with childhood friend George at Tongji University 00:30:30 Yuan and George wanted to choose architecture design as their major, but Yuan’s second older brother Dong Shi stopped them and persuaded them to specialize in bridge with him.  00:33:36 Memories about class fieldwork in Hangzhou with George 00:38:13 Yuan and George liked to sit on the first row in the classroom because it helped them concentrate. Because they took classes and studied together, George and Yuan’s handwriting looked almost the same. 00:44:11* Yuan was a physics professor at Tongji University before migrating to the US. Yuan began her travel to the United States in 1982 as a visiting scholar with her colleagues as part of visiting scientific research exchange team as a result of a U.S.-China Agreement on Cooperation in Science and Technology agreement funded by the Ministry of Science and Technology (MOST) and National Science Foundation (NSF). During their visit, Yuan and her colleagues visited UC Berkeley, University of Colorado, University of Hawaii, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, University of Florida and other colleges in the US. She also had a chance to see the scenery in different states and was also deeply touched by the power of scientific research in America. Yuan also loved the peaceful feeling in America’s countryside. Because her daughter was also studying abroad in New York, she later decided to migrate to the US to join her daughter in 1991.  00:48:57 Yuan visited her daughter who was studying abroad in Albany and the lady who was her daughter’s home stay sponsor. 00:57:14 Yuan went to Hawaii in January 1991 to conclude her research visit. 00:57:45 Yuan met a Ph.D student studying abroad in China from US. The student’s income was very low, and yet he had to support family his family. 01:00:47 Yuan moved to New York in 1991, and then moved to Rockland, Missouri for three months. While she was in Missouri, she attended a conversation class at the Missouri Baptist University. After returning to New York, she received a phone call from her friend about her possibility to receive a scholarship to study church music at the college. Her family supported her in continuing her education. 01:04:16 Yuan arrived in Missouri and began applying for admission with scholarship. 01:08:00 Yuan started her first semester at the Missouri Baptist University. 01:10:30 Yuan completed her education and began living with her daughter in Elmhurst, Queens in April 1996. Her daughter gave birth to a second daughter, Stephanie. 01:10:53 Yuan began looking for jobs on the newspaper and she went to the Southern Baptist Convention in New York since they were hiring a youth pastor and a music pastor in 1996. 01:13:21 Yuan said that Americans memorized all the stories in the bible very well since they were little. 01:14:04* In June 1996, Yuan saw the Chinese Christian Herald Crusades on newspaper and called pastor Lo to find job opportunity in June 1996 after coming back from Missouri upon her graduation. The staff at the church referred Yuan to joined their music team and taught Chinese at the Immanuel church (which shared space with the New York Cho Dae Presbyterian Church located at 210-10 Horace hoarding). Yuan’s granddaughters also came with her to learn Chinese at the church. She later continued her Sunday worship at the church with her friends. 01:22:13 Yuan said that she visited different states in America and that she likes the countryside environment and the friendly people. 01:23:17 Yuan attended computer software, drawing, and art classes at CUNY LaGuadia College.  01:24:00* Yuan is currently a member at the New York Golden Eagle senior center located in Flushing. The senior center provides various recreational and social activities. The center offers different classes throughout the week and members can join the classes that they have interest in. Yuan particularly likes the painting and music classes. The staffs are kind and friendly. The location of the center is convenient, and doctors and pharmacies are all nearby. 01:27:12 Flushing is like China, and there are a lot of Chinese American. Yuan likes to go to the library. Sometimes she goes there with her granddaughters, but it became too noisy in the recent years. 01:28:46* Yuan loves going to the library in Queens. She thinks Flushing library has been getting noisier. She also went to the Elmhurst library with her granddaughter. Elmhurst library has children’s story telling session on Tuesday 9am. Yuan began going to the storytelling session with her granddaughter in 1999 when she was three years old. Yuan wanted Stephanie to interact with the teachers since it can help with her early education. After that, she also took her younger granddaughter to the library every week. 01:32:12 The postal office in Flushing is dirty, garbage and stickers are on the floor. In 2013, Yuan was a member of the All Community Adult Day Centers and the center held an oil painting exhibition at the Flushing Library and Yuan was part of it. 01:34:35 Flushing in 1991 had less people. Yuan recalls when she had a conversation with a Russian lady on the bus during her first days in Flushing. 01:35:44 Yuan’s daughter always drove her kids to Flushing for classes but it was hard to find parking.  01:37:32 In 2013, Yuan moved to Long Island, but prior to that, she lived in Elmhurst with her family. Yuan describes her life in Elmhurst. She went to the discount store near where she lived because the boss goes to the same church as Yuan. 01:39:05* The Immanuel church Yuan attended was located at 210-10 Horace Hoarding. It was convenient and easy to find parking. The church had to pay 600$ rent per month at 210-10 Horace Hoarding location and it had to move to another location because the landlord raised the rent to 1200$ per month. The church group later moved to the Redeemer Lutheran Church on 3601 Bell Blvd, Bayside, NY 11361 but the church wanted the group to follow their worship format and the group didn’t like that idea. It later moved again to Oakland Garden (at 220-16 Union Turnpike). There were about 80 people who came to Sunday worship before the move, but after moving, the church downsized to 20 as it moved from one location to another. Yuan said that because the church group got smaller, she felt the members of the group became closer like a family. 01:44:18* The church that Yuan was a member of sometimes joined the Chinese Christian Herald Crusades in their community outreach activities. Smaller church groups take turns in participating in their worship and outreach activities. One activity Yuan was part of is singing Christmas Carol in front of the Flushing library. The church group also gave out gifts to people as part of the Christmas celebration. 01:46:15 Because Yuan’s daughter has three kids, it was too crowded so Yuan and her husband began renting and sharing a newly renovated apartment near her daughter’s house with another young Shanghainese couple. Because her daughter lived in walkable distance, Yuan still ate dinner with her daughter’s family every day. They also celebrated special occasions and birthdays at Chinese restaurants. 01:50:14* In 2002, they began renting a small room with a balcony in a shared apartment with another young Shanghainese couple in Elmhurst near her daughter’s family. The rent was 350$ in the beginning but later went up to 470$ in 2013. The young Shanghainese couple worked hard and saved up money to purchase their own house in June 2013 and decided to move out. Because of that, the landlord wanted Yuan and her husband to find a place and move out by the end of August 2013. Yuan Shi had applied for senior housing in Long Island a long time ago, and it was during this time in need, she received a notice to move into senior housing in Long Island. Yuan and her husband later moved to her current residence at the Allen AME senior housing in 2015. Yuan said that her current location is more convenient than Long Island. 01:56:47 Yuan talked about her neighbor relation in Elmhurst and how she wants to grow flowers but no place to grow them.      