Muneeb Siddiqui was born and raised in Queens. In fact, he’s spent his entire life here. During the interview, Muneeb talks about going to elementary, middle and high school in Queens. He worked for a non-profit his senior year into his college years. He loved going to Queens borough Community College because the classes were easy and all his friends were there. When Muneeb started Queens College, the classes were harder and he began driving a yellow cab. He met a lot of entertaining people and learned how to navigate through the boroughs. He later started working as a chauffeur, which was a lot more professional. These days, he’s focusing on Computer Science at school so he can financially stable in the future. Through these experiences, Muneeb has become “a man of God,” thinking about God through all his decisions. 

00:00:30 Muneeb Siddiqui is “as Queens as it gets” being born at Queens Hospital, he goes to Queens College and he went to Queens borough Community College. He’s lived in Jamaica his entire life. His favorite places in Jamaica are Jamaica Ave, Central Library, and the Colosseum.
00:01:25 He went to P.S 35. His favorite teacher was his 5th grade teacher, Ms. Salamony because he had a crush on her. He used to do all his work and got straight A’s.  
00:02:20  Muneeb went to M.S 217, which was a block away from his house. He went to school with his cousin and couple of his friends he still knows. He didn’t like it. A lot of the people who went to his school were in his neighborhood, they lived in building around one another. His best friends in middle school were TJ, Yahya, Osama and Zee.  
00:04:14 Muneeb cut class to go watch “Don’t mess with the Zohan” with his cousin and got caught on the way back by an uncle in their neighborhood. He saw them at Jamaica Multiplex and told his parents. His mom ended up throwing a slipper at his face when she found out. The movie was worth it, it was funny. 
00:05:00 Muneeb likes Briarwood a lot more than his old neighborhood on 188th and Hillside because of the people he met there are people he still knows now. During Hurricane Sandy they went on the roof of their building and almost died which he considers a good memory. Muneeb also played a lot of manhunt and he was always the last one.  
*00:07:12- 00:07:56 taken out the of the interview*
*00:07:12 break*
00:07:13 Muneeb went to Hillcrest High School. He was really shy and awkward. He and his Egyptian friend used to cut class and go to Queens Buffet by South Ozone where his friend lived. Earlier when he applied himself he was a really good student, but he didn’t care and slept a lot in class. He didn’t really like high school. 
00:09:15 Muneeb ended high school early because he finished all his credits and worked full time in his senior year at IC and Relief, a non-profit organization. He would make bags of food for clients in need. He got the job through his father, who knew the supervisor. That was his first ever desk job and the best job he has ever had. Everyone there was a family. His supervisor would always pull pranks on the janitor. He got fired for not showing up on time after working there for 3-4 years. 
00:11:23 Queens borough Community college was fun. Classes were easy and all his friends were there. He took the Q31 to school, except for when time when he took the Q30 by accident yet managed to still make to class on time. He would spend all day there going to class, hanging out with his friends and playing cards. He took Speech communication, English, math, physics, Arabic and fitness, all irrelevant classes to him. 
00:14:05 Spring 2014, Muneeb started going to Queens College. Classes were harder and he didn’t really know anyone. That was when he started doing his yellow cab business. He majored in Computer Science. 
00:15:22 While driving a yellow cab, Muneeb worked from 5 pm through 6 am. He got to explore his own city and knowing how to get from one borough to another. He knows Queens and Manhattan like the back of his hand. 
00:17:18 Hannah, 37 and unmarried, was stunning. She was from Copenhagen. Most people don’t talk to him, they’re just on their phones but she was really interacted with him. He picked her up from the Tavern on the Green in Central Park and dropped her off in Downtown Canal Street. She was a rag to riches; she was dirt poor and then got really lucky with a designing job.   
00:18:55 His customers would be very drunk. This kid threw up in the back of his cab, instead of cleaning it; he gave him a $150 tip, so Muneeb had to clean it himself. One time, he took a customer to Penn Station rather than Grand Central Station. 
00:20:35 He didn’t think he played into stereotypes. When people heard him talk they were very surprised due to his brown skin. He felt comfortable. He was mostly in Manhattan. He barely went to Staten Island or the Bronx. He would only go to Staten Island to get to Jersey. He liked driving to Jersey because it was good money. 
00:22:24 Brooklyn and Queens are the same place to him. Queens in the real “melting pot.” If you want diversity and culture, come to Queens. You can always find something to do. He loves bubble tea and the strip malls in Flushing. There’s hookah in Astoria. 
00:23:24 He doesn’t have a lot of free time now due to school and studying. Being a chauffeur was a lot different than driving a cab. You can randomly pick up people; your company gives you clients. You also need to dress and act more professionally. He liked yellow cab better because he had no filter, he can say and do anything he wanted. His clients were a lot more serious, since they were jetlagged. 
00:25:15 Now Muneeb focuses on school and doesn’t have a job. He is a “man of God now.” He’s gotten more religious. He was born a Muslim but now he’s practicing. He’s spending a lot of time with his cousin who found answers in the Quran and would preach it to him. Whenever he does something, he thinks about God. Today, he prayed at 5:30 am and then went to the gym at 6 am, he never did that before. 
00:27:34 He’s now made friends at Queens College. They’re all at the point of their lives where they’re serious about life.   
00:28:45 He’s hoping to be financially secure through education. There’s no moving up from driving a yellow cab, an education gives you more opportunities. In the future he wants to be a mentor and talk to kids. 
00:30:00 He plans on staying in Queens. He was raised in a very brown household. He’s a lot more open minded and he knows Queens while his parents grew up in Karachi. They’re looking at things from a different perspective. 
00:31:00 He’s seen change in his neighborhood. There’s a Starbucks being opened that used to be a HSBC bank, they’re being gentrified. Queens Boulevard underpass on the Van Wyck is finally done being constructed. Chinks the Rapper got shot by the Dunkin Donuts in his neighborhood. His neighborhood has been both good and bad at the same time. 
00:33:10 “Just remember God.”


