My name is Bob Singleton and I’m the executive director of the Greater Astoria Historical Society.  We're speaking in the offices of the society on the 4th Floor of the Quinn building in the heart of Long Island City.    The GAHS represents the neighborhoods that comprised Long Island City, which is one of the three cities that formed greater New York in 1898 - New York, Brooklyn and Long Island City.  The goals are to use our past not to weep for what’s lost, but to help build the future.  GAHS serves the population of the people of LIC and its surrounding areas.  Part of the goals is to help people understand and appreciate the past of our community and also the heritage of this wonderful neighborhood.    We have some information on the actual birth of 30th Avenue.  The original landowner who went to Astoria village and said he wanted to donate some land to start as a street.  That was back in the 1850s.  It ran from the East River all the way to 51st Street which at that time was the border of Long Island City.  At the start of 30th Avenue it was simply some empty lots that weren’t filled.  The trolleys started to run along it in the 1870s and 1880s.  Small buildings started to line the trolley route, mostly houses.  In those days the area was well spread out, and most of the shops were along the very major streets such as Steinway Street or Astoria Boulevard or Vernon.    In 1917 that was really the big boost of Grand Avenue when the elevated train was put in and a station was put up on Grand Avenue.  Literally overnight the area became developed into what we see today.  It was lined with mostly three story buildings and even higher, where you had the shops and stores on the ground floor, and then in many cases those days the actual owners of the shops would live upstairs.  Very interesting, in the early days there were a lot of German stores, and also a lot of the shop-owners were Jewish.  It was the wonderful situation where people would live upstairs from their own stores.  They were part of the neighborhood, and they supported the softball teams, or the charities within the neighborhood.    The consideration in those days was that a healthy neighborhood was a prosperous community.  So there was a wonderful relationship between 30th Avenue that started at that time and still exists to this day.  Of course populations change, retailing changes over the time.  So what used to be mainly retail store or small five and ten cent stores as they called them in those days, or small grocery stores, clothing stores, began to evolve.    Today we see 30th Avenue, a different demographic.  You see many specialty food stores on 30th Avenue.  By the way the name changed from Grand Ave to 30th Ave at some point in the 1920s.  Queens adopted what’s called the Philadelphia system, where Avenues that ran East and West, Streets ran north and south.  It was a grid that was imposed on the whole borough of Queens.  The reason being, that Queens was actually an amalgam, with different townships, villages, and there were a number of different Washington streets, Main Avenues and so on, so what they decided it would be better to have just one system for the whole area.  Today if you walk down 30th Avenue you still see some of the original buildings there.  For example the original police precinct and the original Long Island City Firemen’s Association.  The police station is now the HANAC (Hellenic American Neighborhood Action Committee) building. The Firemen’s Association is now a medical clinic.  But as you go between the area between 31st and Steinway Street, which is considered by many people the heart of 30th Avenue, you’ll see many outdoor cafes, many food specialty shops; the Greek and Italian communities are most known for fabulous food and for a café society if you will.  30th Avenue today is in as much demand today as it was when it was first laid out many years ago.  As a matter of fact the future of 30th Avenue is very bright, because it’s become an area in much demand.   It’s hard to say how it will change in the next 10 years.  We are seeing much more housing, taller buildings being put up on 30th Avenue so it will become much more densely populated, if you will, in terms of structures.    You’re getting other ethnic groups too – Bangladeshi, Arabic and Albanian and Hispanic, Mexican, Brazilian groups etc. so the area will become still more diverse than it is today.  You are also seeing another interesting demographic, and that’s young urban professionals who are moving to New York City.  There is a big movement, unlike there was in the mid-20th Century, for the best and brightest of our society from all around the world to move into urban areas.  That’s even in the United States, where the suburbs were the thing in the mid-20th century.    Well today, I think people are rediscovering the benefits of living in our community.  If you walk down 30th Avenue you see all the things that make a neighborhood great.  You see vitality, you see interesting people, you see faces there, and you see excitement, a buzz in the community.  30th Avenue is one of the finest parts of what is a fabulous neighborhood.  One thing we say about LIC and Astoria is that is has all the benefits of a great city with all the wonderful aspects of a small town.  I think the future of 30th Avenue in particular, and its surrounding Astoria and Long Island City, is very bright.   