Zach: This is Zachary Ryan with Clare Stokolosa. It is November third, two-thousand and eighteen and we are in Long Island City. So, howdy doo Clare how are you?


Clare: I’m good thank you, thank you for coming to my studio. This is studio thirty-four, I’m in room four-thirty-four in Long Island City and we’re on the Astoria side. Long Island City is made up of Astoria, Sunnyside and Long Island City Proper and the whole area is Long Island City, which can get a little confusing. But I grew up here and I now live in Bayside, Queens but I’m back, my friends said I came back because my studio is here. I am a homemade Queens girl, born and raised in Queens. I was born in Boulevard Hospital on Fourty-Third Street and I think Fourty-Third Avenue which is now an apartment building, oh well. And I think it’s a fancy apartment building, and I grew up on Thirty-Third Street off of Broadway. It was a, and it is, but it was a very tight knit community, we played out on the street, there was the drugstore up the block that sold candy and we ran a credit there so that would be paid off at the end of, ya know, the pay period, ya know they’d run a bill or run a tab, and then ya know my parents would go and pay it off, ya know it was very different than it is now, ya know, pre-credit card, I guess, I imagine there weren’t credit cards, there may have been. And, I was, my my earliest memory, is being in my apartment on Thirty-Third Street and we had French windows that looked out onto the street and, they’re like doors, basically French windows are doors. And we were in the front and we had back windows too, and I just remember my mother sitting by the window putting her makeup on with the natural light, and I also remember her just looking outside, and, watching the light. And when the, watching the light shift to our side of the street and at a certain hour, closer to noon she would let me go out and play, because ya know then you could go out and play, by yourselves with your friends. And, I just remember the shifts in the light through the, the sunlight going the fire escapes and how it would cast different shadows on the building, and, buildings, and its very urban here, so it’s all brick buildings and how it fascinated me and I was always very fascinated with light. And I realized that later on in my painting and in my, my work colors that I have this fascination for light. There was one house on our block, it belonged to the Presbyterian Church, and it had a yard, and we would go there, the kids would go down there and play, and get chased out of the yard, that was our yard. But basically there were alley ways, there was Cats Alley where, ya know, people would feed the cats and lots of stray cats. And it was just a fun place, we played stick ball in the street it was a fun place to be. But I always did my art, I was always fascinated with my art. My parents, my father was from Polish-Ukrainian descent. And he grew up on the Lower East Side and he’s, his family’s the one that brought us to Astoria. When he was, and my mother I’ll just mention was from Italian, her, my grandparents on my mom’s side are from Italy from Southern Italy, and they lived in the Bronx. But my father growing up on Tenth and First Avenue in Manhattan went away to, what was like the fresh air (inaudible) now, but it was called, it was a little different it was like a camp for underprivileged children. And he came back and he was about ten eleven years old, I think he was like ten, and his parents weren’t in the house anymore. And the super had a note with the address on it and said, “Your parents moved to Astoria, and here, you take the train and this is how you get there,” and this is before cell phones and a very different place and imagine a little kid coming home and his parents aren’t there and he has to find this place and it was crazy, ya know like take this long train ride on the subway and he did, and they wound up staying here. My grandparents had a small, like a, like a little diner, dinette, with another partner and so my grandfather was a chef and he sort of came here and started that business. And I don’t remember it, I don’t remember I never met my grandfather. But it was right I think on Thirty-Fourth Avenue which is an avenue away from where we live, it was either Thirty-First or Thirty-Fourth I’m not sure. So we were just kind of in, ya know, my, my father was raised here. He went to school at IS, I-S which is Intermediate School One-Twenty-Six on Twenty-First Street, between Broadway and Thirty-First Avenue, beautiful building, built in the twenties, and he was the first graduating class in eighth grade. And it just so happens that my first year of teaching art, I got a job teaching at One-Twenty-Six, and, so it was kind of incredible I remember bringing in the, the graduation picture to show my principal because it was just coincidence it wasn’t planned or anything, but it was very interesting. A real inner-city school, at the time rough, it was a real eye-opener, I loved every minute of it I loved my students. We would, I would have, I had this big beautiful classroom that overlooked, you could see the city you could see the bridges. And I would have my, and it had beautiful wooden floors and high ceilings. And I would have my students sketch out the window, not hang out the window but sit by the ledge and do observational drawing. And just so happens that for me it was very reminiscent because I went to Art & Design High School in the city. So I would cross over to Manhattan over the bridge which is just, ya know, it’s like fifteen minutes … to go to school. And I would do the same thing, ya know, when I was in high school we would sketch out the window and and do observational drawings of Manhattan (inaudible) Manhattan, and so it was like that bridge that connection, the waterways, always being surrounded by water. And right now I live in Bayside and we’re right by the water too, so there’s something about the light in New York. And being in Queens and where I live in Queens I was always at the water’s edge, by Astoria Park which is right here which is right along the East River, always by water, and that’s what I really love about New York and where I live in Queens. And I remember, I’m in Bayside now, I don’t mean to skip around, but I live near Fort Totten and my father was in World War II and he was, he lost his arm during D-Day. And, so, this is a little sad but it’s good, and, so he got to go to the Commissary at Fort Totten, so I remember as a kid going to Fort Totten which is this beautiful base, army base, that goes back to the Civil War. And I remember going there and he would do shopping, like it was very inexpensive and it was pretty, we’d drive there. And he had this big green kind of bubbly round car, I don’t know (inaudible) Chevrolet or what it was. And it was like kind of like an automatic, where you put the money in and then they would put the food through on the other side and you would open the little plastic door and to me that was like, that’s all I wanted, that’s all I wanted to get to do that and pull out the little piece of pie or whatever so, that was fascinating but. And now I live in Bayside and I go to that park and I’ve done paintings there, so it’s just like this, these these, overlapping things that have happened to me and where I wind up in my, ya know, in my life. But my mom, mom being from the Bronx, my father being in the army and losing his arm, with LaGuardia when he was, ya know you think of LaGuardia Airport but Fiorello LaGuardia became mayor, someone knew him. And knew, someone that my father knew or my grandparents knew, knew Fiorello LaGuardia, who was the mayor or New York, and knew he was starting a veterans administration in the city. And it was really to help men who were, people who were wounded to get back to their lives, ya know, and get them out of bed, get them from their depression. So my father was hired to work at the VA, I don’t know if it was a hospital but it was a center. And he worked to like, go and and try and help people get back on their feet, ya know, literally and figuratively. And my mom in those days there were phone operators, like with the switch boards and you move the wire and you would connect people. So actually my father before he even knew what he was saying, he would say, “I met your ma, your mother online,” ya know how like you say you meet someone online and you meet someone on the computer, well before that he always would say, “I met your mother online she was the operator.” So it’s kind of a different reference but the same. And he asked her out and she was from the Bronx, so that’s how they met and when they got married, in the Bronx, they wound up moving and living in in Queens and living with my grandparents, so it was a little tough on my mother. And then there was the Fuller Brush Man, so the Fuller Brush Man used to sell things, go door to door sell soap and brushes and things for the house and products. And he told my mother that there was an apartment opening up around the corner so that’s when they found out, that was their connection and they moved, it was a double building where we lived and then we wound up getting a bigger apartment when the rest of us, its five siblings, I mean I have four, I have a brother and three sisters but there were five children. So we got a bigger apartment and it was a five-story walkup, we lived on the first floor thank God and our windows were right there, my mother, everyone’s always out the window and we had the wash lines in the back hanging the wash out in the back and I remember even when they had it on the roof where you could hang the wash, I guess that’s a, ya know, fire code hazard now so don’t do that anymore. But was a really close-knit neighborhood, all the kids played we played in the hallway, we played outside, we played tag and stick ball. There were lots of stores, that were like individual mom-and-pop stores, there was the German deli and then the Italian delis and the pizza place. We use to go to the movie theaters, there were three movie theaters, two on Steinway, one was a Lowes and there was the Strand and we’d go to the matinee and just, on a Saturday or Sunday and buy popcorn and bon-bons little ice cream bon-bons and it was all kids and crazy and noisy and we watched like a, a movie and, a cartoon and that’s what we did, I’m sure it was inexpensive. And then we’d go to the pizza place and the pizza places were like a long counter and then there was an outside window that would lift up and they’d cut a slice from a big pie and then put it on a piece of like paper and like throw it, ya know, not really but kind of like throw it at you. And then you’d get like a little tiny Coke, ya know, not like what we think of as these big sodas, ya know, and it was twenty-five cents, I remember twenty-five cents. And it was delicious, it was so good. All the food was, ya know, all the food was so good and there were different ethnic, it was mostly I guess Irish, Irish-Catholic, there was Jewish. There was Italian, Spanish, there was blacks but it was I would say it was segregated because of the projects, we have a lot of projects. And I don’t think it was, I I was too little but I’m gonna say it, ya know, that it probably was, ya know, like most of the, African Americans were in the projects, there were several projects, they were mixed. And, ya know, the demographics have changed over time definitely, it’s just always maintained neighborhood. Ya know, whoever’s living here it’s just great, it’s, ya know, now present day one of my sister’s still lives here and, I mean I love it here and everyone wants to move here, but I love it it still keeps that family sense to it which I really like and that little bit of hometown and when the different groups come in different ethnic groups they bring that flavor in, that food in, that’s what it’s just, it's always been known for, ya know, that original food, ya know, change and then it was Greek and Muslim and from different like, whether it’s Indian, the food’s changed but you could get whatever kind of food you want and it’s authentic, it’s delicious. And my, but going back to me, my memory, again, was just playing outside and being home with my mom and she was Italian, always cooking, she would make dough and she would give me dough, and I would make little sculptures, I was always making my art. My sister’s tell me how I use to just sketch, like sketch objects, sketch the telephone, sketch anything I could, watch tv, sketch the tv. Ya know I have vague memories of that and I know I was always tracked for art, in the first grade, I I went to Most Precious Blood, which was a Catholic school through eighth grade, then I went to Art & Design public school in Manhattan where I crossed the bridge, which I thought was always part of my life crossing this bridge, the Fifty-Ninth Street or Queensboro Bridge. And just always had art in my life, I was tracked for art, my first grade teacher said, “She needs glasses and she’s a good artist, I don’t know how smart she is,” no but those are the two things she said and I’m still wearing my glasses and I’m still doing my art, and I just have this need to always do my art. But I just always fascinated with light, and color and paint, I think it’s because I didn’t see well, that I always saw color first and then I would see form and then I would see the line, the line was last. So, so we’re right outside the very noisy street so it’s a part of the neighborhood. And so I was just fascinated always with color and just always loved making things and whether it was three-dimensional out of clay or painting I just always remember painting. My mom had me like set up my paints in the middle of the living room with the rug and the plastic-covered furniture and a little table and I was painting away, but I just always, I always loved it. And, it was, I just, I love living here, I love living here and doing my art and one thing is I live by the trains, so I was right off of Broadway and we had the R-Train and the N-Train. And now they switched so what you think of as the R, is now on the N-Line and the N is on the R-Line, but that doesn’t matter, if you live here, they did switch so the train, the letters for the train switched and the R was originally on the L-Train and this is actually a painting that I did, this is from the L, of someone on the L-Train. And the L means elevated train because we have an L-Line that runs through Fourteenth Street and to Brooklyn, but when I say the L, it means elevated train it’s short for elevated train. And the other line was underground which is the subway, and that was always there so that’s was our form of travel, always took the trains everywhere. And the bus, actually there was a Steinway bus and it went right to Fifty-Ninth Street and stopped last stop two blocks from my high school, so made going to school in Manhattan real easy. So I could take the train, I’d meet my friends on the train or I could take the bus, my girlfriend Irene would meet me by the bus and we’d say, “Okay let’s take the bus today.” And so that was really always cool and convenient. And going, ya know, I went to a Catholic school, my father, it was Most Precious Blood, I know my father helped fundraise to build that school which is now closed a few years ago. And it was great, it was a little stifling cuz I’m I was an artist so wearing a uniform, ya know, but it was great we had, ya know, a lot of tradition and the church it was a good place. I just liked a little more freedom than wearing my uniform because I wanted to be more expressive but otherwise, ya know, it was good. And I remember, ya know, I especially remember the teachers that were really interested in art and we always did a little more extra art projects. And I always wanted to do my, of course my art homework first, you know when I would get home it was like, “Oh I have this,” and my mother say, “Well what about,” “I wanna do this first, I wanna do this first,” so I was always doing my art. And I remember the people in my life who always brought me art like my friend who lived on my block, my friend Debbie, and I had more than one friend Debbie, but the younger one and her aunt was an artist so I did my first oil painting at her aunt’s house. She set us up and she lived in one of the newer buildings that had on, on Crescent Street and it had a patio and ya know it was probably built in the sixties and she set us up with a little easel and the paint tubes and that’s the first time I ever used oil paint and I remember I painted a tree with a squirrel on it. And I remember like after that no painting my mother’s vases, and just like objects in my house and I just got my own oil paints and I never stopped, I never stopped. And then my brother, who was older than I was, had friends that went to Art & Design in the city on Fifty-Seventh Street and Second Avenue, specialized high school. And I took the test and I got in, and it was life-changing so ya know, the hoop earrings, the babushka that my grandmother use to use, I wore the scarf around my head and now it was, that means scarf, and ya know I was ya know I loved that freedom and we got a really strong great, my friends and I got art education, very strong based. And it’s a wonderful, it’s just been rebuilt it’s in Manhattan and it was just rebuilt and it’s just around the corner now so they bought the airspace so it was low so now there’s a big high rise and in exchange they built a beautiful state-of-the-art school. So actually I won an art award as an art teacher award and it was presented at Art & Design, cuz they had the conference there so it was very special to me. I taught art for many years, and I have my BFA, my Bachelor’s of Fine Art degree, and from Hunter College, which was right across the bridge, on Sixty-Eighth Street and Lexington Avenue, again, just taking the bus, moved to Sunnyside there was another bus that just went the Q-Sixty(?) that went all along Queens Boulevard and stopped, ya know, on Sixtieth Street and then I’d just walk uptown to Sixty-Eighth so that was my form of transportation really buses and trains. And I have this fascination with light and trains and train tracks, and I talked about the light and the fire escapes, I also lived by the L, the elevated train and you’d see like the train would pull in and pull out and as it did it would change the light as it would go over the tracks and it would cast these shadows and you’d hear that click-click-click-click-click-click-click, click-click-click noise and so it’d pass by and it was fascinating to me, it wasn’t noise it was like a melody, ya know, it was just like, it was like a song. And I remember, and I have my whole series, ya know I did all my sketches I call it “New York City Faces of the New York City Subway” and people on the subway and people in transit, that I’ve, that I’ve worked on. And actually that’s, jumping around a little bit, but I just did that I was teaching an art history class up town in Washington Heights and on my way to work I was in Bayside so it was a long train ride I was on the LIRR to Thirty-Fourth Street and Penn and then I take the one up town and or the A, and just everywhere, no matter where I was everyone’s just on their devices, everyone was on their phones it’s a different world than when I was little. And I said, “What’s going on, ya know, so I said I’m going to document this,” so I started, I always sketch, I sketched when I was in high school I always sketched. And, so I started drawing them and I enlarged them and I did a whole series of paintings on them. But always that fascination with the subway, with transportation, bridges, getting passage ways back and forth, getting across waterways because again I was surrounded by water and I was always fascinated with that. And a little bit of an activist, there was a very old building, school on Steinway Street right off of Broadway and it must have been built at the turn of the last century or before, maybe sometime in the eighteen hundreds and when it came down the community was trying to get a park built, so we would go there, we were just kids, like ten and the girl scouts would go, I wasn’t a girl scout but I would go with them and we just would like try and clean up this huge massive lot and we would like take bricks and make this huge massive pile to make a statement and we built this huge mound that must’ve been, like a story high. And we wound up getting a park, half of it was a park and half of it is a parking lot and is still there, the parking lot and the park are right off on Steinway between Broadway and Thirty-First, so we did get something accomplished. And we did fight, I remember when I was a child we had the movie theater, and Lowes was this big beautiful old movie theater and it had like the king’s chair with the crushed velvet, red, and very gaudy, and it had like the big balconies with all the stairways leading up and you’d go and sit in the king’s chair and your feet would dangle and I remember people were fighting to keep, to keep the theater from being destroyed and they did not succeed. And they also were doing a petition because of cable tv, we didn’t want to pay for tv, so this was so I guess I had a little bit of activism and neighborhood activism in me and I’ve always tried to do what’s right for the community, very active in my union, I was an art teacher for many years and always trying, like wanting to give back and I guess it came from when I was young, I had that in me.


Zach: Is there anything else that you, that, of this area that has really affected your life?


Clare: The life that, this is a very urban area, and I grew up on Broadway, which is where all the stores are, there’s (inaudible) and there’s Broadway, the Steinway Street, there are certain avenues that have most of the stores. And, I, I would say just being surround, like being in a hub, I need that energy. I go to Italy and I stay in a town that has that kind of life to it even though it’s small, and I go back and forth with my art career. But I love home, the, the, the little the mom-and-pop stores that were along Broadway, I love the restaurants that are here. We really didn’t go out to eat much, there were certain restaurants my mother was very particular where she went to eat and she was an incredible cook, everyone like if they talk about my mother they talk about her meatballs she was an incredible cook. And very very kind person, open door. Living in an apartment building with the people would like talk to each other through the window or come in and out of each other’s homes, like open door, and I don’t know if that was because of my family but everyone was super friendly. So having all the stores, but also having that small sense of community really stayed with me. Ya know, that friendliness, that safeness. I love stores I love shopping I love touching things, ya know, forget the Internet, ya know, I just, I just love that, the noises, the smells, on Sundays, ya know, people cooking and being in, ya know, as a kid we would like wander through the back alleys, I guess we did a lot of dangerous things, ya know. And just hearing that mumbling of the sounds and the cooking and the aromas of the cooking of the different, ya know, like, different smells from whoever was cooking, I talked about the different ethnic groups so you’d, you’d smell it and just hearing that kind of quiet, because it was a busy area, but on Sundays, everything closed on Sunday. And that was really special, and I remember when I first went to Italy and I was in Florence and it was a Sunday and I was walking through the streets and it brought me back to that time because I heard those same sounds, ya know. And it was interesting because my mom was Italian so there was that kind of, and ya know I guess there were a lot of Italians in the area then, different groups but. Just, I remember the our school had a big parking lot and in the once a year they may had a Bizarre, we had the Ferris wheel and we had like, where you would, ya know, the the wheel, spin the wheel and you could place a bet, and little rides and that was like incredible like everyone, “We gotta go, we gotta go to the Bizarre.” So that was like all these big things these were events, when I grew up and when I was going to school when I was really young, there was a chicken coop across the street on Broadway from my school and you’d see the, I’m sure, I didn’t know they were ringing their necks but there were little chickens walking around on Broadway. To me they were like pets, and, ya know, it just, just we had the trip to the moon and and the whip, those were rides that would come down our street, they were like on a, on a cart and you’d pay ten cents and you’d get to go on this ride. And, ya know, Mister Softy(?) and the sound of Mister Softy(?) and the Good Humor bell. Ya know there was a lot more, I remember, I remember when I was really little, home with my mother looking out the window, there was a woman who use to come and sing like opera songs, and she was dressed like, ya know, with the shawl and she had the, the scarf tied up on her head and she’d come in the alley way and she’d sing opera, and my mom would wrap a, the back alley our window was higher, in the front it was lower, and my mother would put money in like a little tissue and I’d get to throw it down to her and I’d peek out the window and that was like, incredible. Like I didn’t realize how much music was and sounds were in my life, and I’m talking now and I’m realizing it. And then I remember the Junk Man use to come, and he had a truck and he’d come down and go, “Alley-o-Junk, Alley-Whack, Any ol’ Junk” and he was scary-looking, I don’t know if he had many teeth and was kind of scraggly and he’d always come back the window and like wave at me, and I’d kind of hide cuz I guess I was home, ya know, my my siblings, I have one younger sibling my sister Annie but my, Maryann, Teresa, Peter they were out at school and so I was home with my mom a lot so she definitely influenced me a lot. And ya know it was the age of tv and all the sitcoms, and, I loved tv, I am an avid read but I, that wasn’t till later on, I always did my art. I don’t know whether influence of art, my mother was always so good at it, the food always looked so beautiful, she always decorated beautifully. My aunt on my father’s side wanted to be a seam-, ya know, a seamstress but, a fashion designer but I don’t think, I think that was kind of taboo. My father, he, he used to go in to Broadway and, to there’s a bar right it’s still there I don’t know what it’s called now and listen to Tony Bennett. And I actually met Tony Bennett, at an awards ceremony, ya know, because he’s very pro for these specialized high schools that are, are in danger now and they’re very very important. They’re, they’re throughout the boroughs, they’re for all different subjects and they’re trying to get rid of them and they’re so vital and important. But I met him at, and he’s so kind and I went over to him and I told him that my father use to go and listen to him, and he, I don’t know if it was true but he goes, “Those were some of the best times in my life,” when he was starting his career he was such a nice man. And like Ethel Merman lived, ya know, like, I think Rosemary from the Dick Van Dyke Show went to school, they went to Bryant High School, my father went to Manhattan to school, to high school, but my aunt went to Bryant High School. And a lot of people who are, ya know, wound up being famous went to school there a lot of them came out of Astoria, I don’t know why but. And we all kind of stayed, ya know, had my family in the Bronx, ya know, it’s funny New York is, is kind of very worldly and very provincial. So I know a lot of people moved to New York but a lot of my friends that were born and raised here are like our families are here, like we stay, like I’m in, ya know, I’m really in Queens my other family is in the Bronx some people have moved away but, people kind of stay close. So there is, ya know, we have, there is the wrong impression about New York because there is close-knit community here. There’s like this inner smaller community and people are friendly, they might be rough, but they really are helpful and friendly, ya just have to, I have friends that come here from Italy and they don’t speak English and (inaudible) trying to communicate and they were like trying to order a coffee it was in Manhattan and it’s like, “What, what do you want. What do you want.” and she’s like “Oh my God” she was trying, she didn’t know what to do it was just funny, it was comical. But really can be helpful you just have to get past that. But I would just say that like there’s something about Long Island City, I mean there’s some reason why everyone’s coming back here, I mean it’s getting very expensive. It’s sad to see all the high rises that are going up, there’s so many, I mean I hope they do family, I hope they do planning for schools and sewers and hospitals, so many hospitals have closed. The hospital I was born in, Saint John’s Hospital, on Queens Boulevard down by Woodhaven. I mean we need hospitals, we need to plan for schools, we need to plan in every which way, ya know, it’s a, we have to have, not just putting up buildings and factories, ya know, and when I say factories, I grew up, there were all factories here the Swingline(?) factory for the stapler, I grew up with, there were a lot of factories here and a lot of manufacturing in Long Island City but now when I say factories I mean they’re just putting up all these high rises and I hope they think of urban planning, and what they’re going, ya know, and saving and saving some of that community because a lot of, a lot of communities throughout Queens are being shut down. Like in Kew Gardens there, there’s a whole little neighborhood and that land was leased by the railroad and all those stores were told they have to leave and they’re going to be putting up high rises there. So like, it’s nice to bring people in, but then where are they going to shop, and where are they going to eat and, ya know, we have to think of those changes and I, I hope, I just want to say like with my art, I hope, I always had my art it always brought peace and energy to me, I want to express things that are good and happy and I want to use it as a window, in a, a window in and out and I hope I keep doing that with my art. And I hope that people just stay aware and are involved in their community.

 
Zach: Do you see yourself ever leaving this area for somewhere else?


Clare: I love, I live part of the time in Cortona in Tuscany in Italy, I can never leave New York completely, it is too much, I mean I, I always tell her, I used to tell my students and I, even when I, I worked with art teachers and as a mentor and, and doing professional development for the city but, I, I don’t like to use the word “never,” but I can’t imagine totally leaving New York, and I guess, ya know I always wanted to, ya know when I was younger I was kind of embarrassed that I lived in Astoria it was like blue collar, I always looked I’d go in Manhattan and I’d look at all the big buildings and wanted to live there. And actually, recently before I moved to Bayside I thought about it, and I looked and I wound up moving to Bayside which to me use to be the country, it was so far away, but I remember I use to go to the Commissary there, so it’s like, ya know, going back and forth to these neighborhoods these little triangles, and I don’t, I don’t think I could ever leave New York and leave Queens. And one other thing that’s very funny is I’m in Bayside by Fort Totten and it’s by another bridge, it’s by the Throgs Neck Bridge, which is right across from my aunt’s house and they live right on the water there, always surrounded by water we use to go to the Bronx, we use to swim in the East River all the time. And my cousin told me that she use to rowboat across to the, the shore in Bayside and, and, pick up her friend in the rowboat in Queens … that was my phone, and, technology times have changed … and rowboat across back to the Bronx. But there’s like kind of that triangle, ya know, like I had a lot of friends in Brooklyn, always in Manhattan, cuz always the East Side mostly, because it’s right across the river. But I just, I can’t imagine ever leaving here. My grandparents are in Calgary Cemetery on Queens Boulevard, my family and my grandparents are in the Bronx in Saint Raymonds. And I’m very nostalgic I really hold onto things and, ya know I don’t know, we’ll see, I hope to spend more time in Italy and I love it there, but I think it’s because it holds some of the town I stay in, holds some of the qualities what has a lot of culture, has a lot of the arts, they appreciate my art there, which is good, it has, it has what this neighborhood offers. So the friendliness also the culture, but I, ya know I taught in Queens, I taught art in Queens, my studio’s in Long Island City, I taught in Corona, Queens, I taught in Glendale, Queens which I didn’t even know where it was until I got, I taught, I taught in Astoria, my first gig teaching. And ya know it’s like I was raised here I went to school here ya know, I went to school, ya know, for in Manhattan but this is like where I am, I live here, probably die here.


Zach: Do you enjoy making your art based on things that you see here?


Clare: Yes, I, I always, I’m very influenced by, I’m very influenced by the architecture, the light. And one of my favorite paintings is Edward Hopper’s “Sunday Morning,” and it’s, it’s of a, there’s like a, a barber shop pole with the stripes on it it’s like red and white, in the picture and some old storefronts with a old façade of buildings. And I swear to God that’s what it looked like right around up the block from where I live. That’s, it looked exactly, there was the barber shop, there was a little grocery store, there were a few buildings. And I, I’m very influenced by the architecture and the light in Manhattan and, and in Queens and in my neighborhood and the trains and, ya know, the, the tenements which are disappearing and the high rises and the bridges going up. Yeah, I’m just so, my view is always of Manhattan because I’m on the, the Queens side. But I’m very influenced by the people, I sketch the people, I paint them. I try to, to keep that in my life and use it as my art is a form of communication. What’s funny is, my phone was ringing which is on my wrist because it’s a watch and I feel like Agent Ninety-Nine, you probably don’t know who Agent Ninety-Nine is from a tv show, from Maxwell Smart, but when I was a kid they had phone books, there was the white pages and the yellow pages, and they use to have original art, not original art but images and one of them was “Sunday Morning” by Hopper. And you could send away and I got this free poster of that scene, and I framed it, the way I could frame it I was just a kid and I’ll put it up in the room, in, in my brother’s bedroom cuz I, I didn’t have my own room I shared with my sisters but I use to decorate his room. And I remember going to the Whitney and they did a show on him and they had his, his easel and they had that painting on it and it was the most incredible thing. But I love his cuz he really deals with light, Hopper, he’s one of my favorite artists. And, and the light and the city and the scenes, and when I draw whether I’m in Italy or whether I’m here I like to take in the architecture, the people and the life around me. I’m fascinated with it.


Zach: So you mentioned that you’re fascinated by people and the life, are there any noticeable differences that you’ve noticed between life and culture here versus overseas?


Clare: They, in, in Italy I would say that they’re slower, and I mean that in a positive way. They appreciate living more, just enjoying, ya know, they, they go to work, they work very hard they have, they still have like the long lunches the siestas, everything still, it does close down, there are some places where it doesn’t but basically places close down, then they go back to work in the evening, they go home and they hang out and in the cities it’s changing a little bit, but they go home, they relax and then they go back to work and everything opens back up around four five o’clock it’s like incredible. Like everything just like, so it’s like okay it’s hot, or okay it’s this or that and they go home and they do their shopping or they do whatever and then they go back and they open up things. I remember I was in Italy last summer I, I go several times a year and often in the summer, and I was, I always do my walk in, it’s a walled city, it’s a Truskan-walled city(?), ya know Renaissance it goes all the way back, and this is Cortona. And I always do my walk around the mountain and I was walk, and I end up back in the park and there were these women walking their dogs in front of me. And I was thinking about work, I was thinking about my artwork and a painting I was doing, and how I was going to solve the problem but it was actually, as much as I love my work it was a little stressful because I was trying to solve, ya know, painting isn’t just when you’re in front of the canvas, there’s a lot that goes into my art, ya know, thinking it through, the concept. And so I was like, all of a sudden I was like (big groan sound) ya know, I took, I was like, I had like this deep breath and they turned around, Italian, and I speak, ya know, some Italian and they turned around and were like, “What’s wrong,” ya know, what’s the matter and I said, “Oh, I’m thinking about work,” and they said, “Well don’t think.” It’s like in otherwise not not to think but (inaudible) intelligent people but relax, they enjoy life. I, I think New York is a little, as much as I do love it the pace when I get back, the pace is a little fast. Ya know, well I love it and I miss it, I guess as I get older, that’s why I like to spend, I, I think of Italy as like my Florida, a lot of people in New York go to Florida, they snowbird, I want Italy to be my Florida but my husband says it’s a little further than Florida but, we go quite often.


Zach: Is he here in Queens with you?


Clare: Yes, we live together. We got married a few years ago in Cortona in the town. And he loves it there, he’s from Italian descent also, and on his father’s side, and he loves the life there. His mother’s also from the south, like from Alabama here. So it’s like, from being from Southern Italy and having, and from being, he has, it’s almost like that’s what the pace is like, they’re more southern in Italy like, ya know, like southern here. They’re slower, except Rome is different but, ya know, they have that pace that, “Ah, yeah take it easy sit down for a while,” ya know, ya chat first, your not just like. Sometimes when I’m the, when I’m at the gallery and I deal (inaudible), ya know he runs the gallery and sometimes I’ll ask him about something he says “Tranquillo, tranquillo,” you’re not in New York, relax. You’re in Italy please, you’re not in New York don’t be in New York. So I have that pace in me and I have to learn to like, chill.


Zach: I was going to say, which pace do you feel like you have more of?


Clare: Well I do have that, that, I have that, that, you know, especially, you know when I was teaching art and I was on the schedule and in the public schools and I was always an advocate, always joining programs involved in, outreaching and getting involved with the museums, it’s a lot of work, you know. So, looking for things and my principals always supported me but it, I had to do like the footwork and then say, “How bout this” and they were like, “Well can you make it work?” and you know, “We’re behind you,” you know, I was lucky that way I was very fortunate. And it was always for the kids, ya know, but I, I, I love that, but I think as I get older, ya know, slowing down a little bit. And I made, I just recently made the decision to do my art full-time, I always did my art, even when I taught art I was always a, a working artist. But to do it full time it, and to just, ya know, put myself into that and share my art, help other people who want to find this journey of, ya know, being an artist full-time and also giving back to the community, which ya know is also very important to me. So, ya know, you learn the pace, it’s like a dance, it’s like a dance.


Zach: What do you hope people take away from your art?


Clare: I hope they’re inspired, I hope it brings them a smile. Happiness, and insight at the same time. I did, I had a show called “Le Donne(?),” and it means “women” in Italian, and I did it, it was at a college in the city, at (inaudible) College, and it was all women, all the images. Except actually this painting, you can’t really see it, but this painting was in it. And this is actually of someone I knew from Italy, it was a boyfriend who came here, because a lot migrated here to make a living. And this is the L-Train on Broadway. And I have a painting of me on the Ponte Vecchio in Florence, and it’s all about bridges and passageways, so I want my art to be a window, a bridge, an opening. And in the show it was all women and their different roles. And, and these, if you ever look at an old building in Italy they’ll have like two (inaudible), and in other countries too they’ll have like, the gargoyles or the lions and a lot of times they’ll have people bearing fruit, like as greeting people coming into a big palazzo or big building. And so I had these two framing as you entered the gallery, and then I had all the people in Noah’s Lover, his Mother, you know, as sibling in their different roles and that’s what the show was based on. And I remember one kid looked at this picture, and he was Spanish, it was blonde, it was like a woman with a blonde baby blue eyes, and he looked at it and he says, “Oh my God that reminds me of me and my mother,” and that’s it, that’s what I want my art to do. I don’t want it to be like, “That’s not me” or “I can’t relate to that,” I want it to create, I want it to move people, I want them to, I want it to be whether you’re looking at people on the subway, I want people to identify and relate to it, and what better way through art. And I thought New York City, the subway in New York City you get all kind of, I know I’m jumping around, but you get every walk of life, you have the homeless, you have people travelling from all around the world on the subway, you have people with lots of money taking the subway, the mayor takes the subway, you have, ya know, people who have to share a metro card because they, they can’t afford another metro card and they have to meet and I know this, from, from experience from people I know that they have to meet someone at the station to get that metro card because they can’t afford to get another one and share the metro card back-and-forth to work and school. So you have all kinds of walks of life on the subway. And it’s a, we live in harmony on the subway, I know you hear a lot of bad things but really, how many people are on the train, how many masses of people are on the train living peacefully, I want to capture that in my art. I want my art to speak about peace, about communication and I want it to bring a smile.


Zach: What advice would you give people who are looking to follow in your footsteps or enter this field?


Clare: It’s hard. It’s fun. You have to have the passion. You have to believe. And just go for it, just keep pounding the sidewalk, ya know, there’s more, there’s more to it than just, if you want to just make your art and have it and keep it intimate for yourself and your family, that’s good. If you want to go beyond that, know what you want, define what you want and it may change, go back and look at that over time. Be open, share with people, share with, don’t be like, “I need this all for myself,” I learned from a lot of people, and I, ya know, pass it on. It’s just a lot of work, be determined, be organized, ya know, as an artist ya know, what kind of, I can speak for myself, I’m kind of like all over there. But I think my teacher training helped to keep me solid and keep me together. It’s just like, follow your dream, and, and, ya know, don’t give up.


Zach: Is there anything else you would like to add?


Clare: This was very emotional.


Zach: Did you have fun with it?


Clare: Yeah.


Zach: You seemed to enjoy it.


Clare: Yeah, it was very emotional and probably didn’t talk about a lot of things … It was a lot of fun … A lot of stories … Just thinking back, my family, friends, ya know I didn’t mention a lot of people by name or anything but, ya know, just like my, the connections like, having all these siblings and they had friends and the extended families and. One thing I want to mention, growing up there was the telephone. We use to lock ourselves in the big closet and talk on the phone, I remember my father pounding telling my sister get off the phone. But what is lost, and this is important, what has been lost is through having a telephone in the house, everyone got to knew, to know their parents’ friends, even if it was via telephone. You would pick up the phone, you’d have a little conversation, you’d pass it on. You would talk, you would know who your brother’s friends were from that, you would know who to call at a certain time, you’d know your father’s friends, your mother’s friends. They knew, they knew, it was, it was more sharing of people, and now it’s great that we have our private phones and we can reach each other so quickly. But we’ve lost that, that community, by so, there’s always give and take, by having these phones which I did the study drawing people on the phone, we don’t share as much. So we have to try and keep that balance, and speak to people, look at people, I draw them so I look at them. So many times I catch them when they find me drawing them but they rarely catch me drawing them, cuz they’re always like this. And just we need to keep community, and, and because communication will bring us peace, and fear, and hatred, and thinking people are different is only going to divide us and is not going to lead to good things. So just be opened, opened to new things and don’t be afraid.


Zach: Alright … Thank you for your time, Clare. This is Zachary Ryan and Clare Stokolosa, November third, two-thousand-eighteen, from Long Island City.


Clare: Thank you, Zachary.


Zach: Thank you.
