My name is Casey Sullivan and IÕm the chef of Queens Comfort in Astoria.  It opened in February of this year, 2011, started by Donny and Avery [Donnie DÕAlessio and Avery Thompson].  They both were in the film business - they made a lot of horror films and some Pakistani soap operas.  They were also interested in restaurants.  IÕm into movies too, so yes, that explains why these references in the place.  When we donÕt talk about food we talk about movies.   They wanted to do comfort food and were looking for a chef, and IÕd just moved to New York from Chicago.  IÕm from California, from LA, but have pretty much lived all over America - Georgia, Kansas City, Chicago, and a lot of places in the SouthÉTennesseeÉ  I am pretty into America!  I am a really big proponent of American culture and I think that especially in the food world - now people are kind of taking notice of it - but historically it hasnÕt had the respect that it deserves.  You know, people look to France for how to make good food but I think we have good traditions here.   And thatÕs what we try to do.  ItÕs strictly American food, not just Southern.  Growing up in LA there were a lot of Hispanic influences also, but definitely, Southern too.  Just about comfort, American food.  My favorites are smoked meats, like brisket and pulled pork, but my absolute favorite food to eat and cook is fried chicken without a doubt.  I think itÕs one of the hardest things to cook and eat.  And itÕs one of the things with the most variances and all the different schools of thought.  And everyone thinks theirs is the best.  I know we have the best in Astoria here.  And I think we have the best in New York.  We do our fried chicken pieces Ð like legs and thighs maybe with some biscuits and watermelon and corn on the side.  We usually have it on the weekday nights.    This place is very different for where itÕs at.  There are places like it in Brooklyn and the Lower East Side in Manhattan that do this kind of thing well.   But here itÕs new.  A lot of the things weÕre doing takes people time to figure out.  Fried green tomatoesÉeven the way we do burgers, itÕs just kind of different for a lot of people. But the reason itÕs a success is because people who like it love it.  And when more people give it a chance it will be very successful.  And we have fun.   I think some of the food weÕre putting out is the best.  WeÕre actually making some of the best food which is crazy to say.  But weÕre hard on ourselves, we donÕt pull punches as far as this could be better, that could be better.  There are a lot of arguments.  Its simple food but we take it really seriously.   Both of the other guys are bona fide cooks now.  They didnÕt have restaurant experience at all - front of house or back of house.  They started out in the front and it was so hard to find help in the back, and people willing to put in the hours, and also on days like this you canÕt afford to pay a bunch of cooks - itÕs slow right now. So they have had to step up in the back and they do.  When itÕs a busy brunch and this place is full itÕs me and those two guys, and thatÕs it.    We try to use the green markets - like the one in Union Square.  ThereÕs nothing more fun than going to the market and grabbing the green tomatoes and a big bag of corn, and other vegetables.  Meat is harder because of the expense.  When you start doing free range and local meat youÕre looking at adding ten bucks onto a dish.  We do what we can though and use local butchers Ð literally walk down the street, make a call and tell them what we want and go and pick it up.    They are both from Long Island.  Donny lives in Astoria, Avery lives near.  I live in Washington Heights - 176 and Fort Washington.    Food is interesting to me and when youÕre dealing with food youÕre also dealing with American history.  ItÕs a way to be.  ItÕs creative kind of, but itÕs also a craft.  Like laying bricks, but laying bricks really well.  You know.  The middle class in this country, the workers, used to be artisans and craftsmen.  They didnÕt necessarily design great buildings but they built great buildings.  You know, like someone designed the Chrysler building but there were guys who built that and thatÕs amazing.  ThatÕs what I think that we do.  I donÕt invent anything but I feel I make a Chrysler building every day!  You know, you pay attention to something, you do everything right, you do it the way you were told to do it, you might find faster ways to do it but you donÕt cut any corners.  ThatÕs a craft, you know.  ItÕs one of the few crafts left in the country that you can make money doing.  I think that in America there is a sense of when you boast about certain foods, if you treat food like itÕs important, the American culture doesnÕt like that.  If someone brags about food people see that as suspect.  Like, Ôwell thereÕs nothing special about this food, itÕs the food that my grandmother made,Ó missing the fact that thatÕs why itÕs important.  ItÕs the food your grandmother made and she took care of it.  People have pride in it but then if you were going to go with a career in cooking.  Well, the word Chef is a French word.    The ÒcareerÓ of cooking meant that you were going to go a European route.  But nowadays people donÕt want that.  I donÕt want to eat crepes!  I just donÕt want to do it!  I appreciate the way that they design kitchens and that the philosophy is [food].  I would be running a losing race if I tried to cook French food better than a French guy, you know.  And the same holds through.  Bring any French guy in to cook our food Ð put that in! IÕll have a fried chicken challenge with M Wells any day.  They do proper Montreal food, and thatÕs what you should do.  If I moved to Berlin I wouldnÕt cook Berlin food IÕd make fried chicken.  I have to do what I do.  Most of my training was in Kansas City, where I worked with really good chefs who really know how to cook.  I know how to cook in a proper kitchen, run a fish station, meat station, and do all of that.  In Kansas City thereÕs great barbeque and straight American food Ð itÕs found its way into fine dining there.  You can have grits, pulled pork etc. on a menu in a fine dining restaurant.  Those are the things in my formative years.   Now that the other two are well trained we kind of stagger the hours, like IÕll come in a bit later and as the night goes on Donny can leave early; but at the weekend itÕs pretty much all three of us all the time.  IÕll take a nap right there on the bench.  You come in at five and IÕll be asleep right there!   These tables Avery built them all.  They built this, they built the floors, re-did the wood, the stools, AveryÕs mom did all these cushions.  They painted the walls.  They didnÕt mess with the kitchen though - I kind of wish they had.  My girlfriend is a mixologist (classic cocktail bar tender) sheÕs the head bar tender at CafŽ Boulud in the City.  She got that job in Chicago - so we moved to New York figuring IÕd find something.  Literally I was here two weeks and I met them, through Craigslist.    