Gail Tabaco O’Brien is a long-term resident in Bellerose, Queens. In this interview, Gail spoke about her memories of growing up in Queens with her family and friends. Filipino culture and traditions played a major role in the family. Gail discusses about how her family’s life in Briarwood and how the Filipino culture is reflected to her social life and family life. 

00:01:00	Gail was born in Newark, Queens in 1965. She was born in Long Island Jewish Hospital and her mother worked there around 40 years. Her mother had children there as well. She was home for all of her children except for Gail. 
00:01:18	Gail was the youngest out of her siblings. Her mother started working there as a nurses aid when Gail was 1 year old and when she was 16 years old. She was 44 years old when Gail’s mother had Gail. 
00:01:58	There were 10 of the siblings that are alive and 6 of them passed away for different reasons. Gail is their 16th and youngest child.
00:02:47	Gail’s earliest memory in Queens is when her family had a big yard, where her father used to do gardening, had a harvest and her mother and father used to make flowers. They had a fun time in Glendale Street and they used to play tag with other kids in the neighborhood. 
00:04:55	Gail’s older siblings used to go to a Catholic Church, but most of her siblings went to the same public school together. They used go to Elementary school, PS.115, PS. 122, and Martin Vienna High School. 
00:05:35	Gail and her siblings used to commute together, bus for elementary school. During middle school, they all had to walked; no bus. During High School, they needed to take the Public Transportation bus. Everyone in the neighborhood had that experience commuting to school.
00:07:28	there were Filipino traditions that they followed back then. Obeying the oldest, men were superior, and there were 6 girls in the family and 4 men in the family, the women had to serve men during dinner, but overall, with all of those traditions, they were all still family.
00:09:00	her parents were very strict compared to her American friend’s parents. Gail and her siblings weren’t allowed to sleepover, they shouldn’t be late when they arrive back home from school. As they got older, Gail’s parents wouldn’t allow them to go outside until they finished all of their chores and work. Before Gail thought that her parents were really strict, however, she realized that her parents were teaching her and her siblings that it is important to grow up.
00:10:00	Gail also learned that doing easy things during your childhood, won’t help you mature as they grow up in the future. 
00:11:38	Gail’s family used to go back to Philippines every two years in the early 1970s. Gail only remembers her memory when she was only 8 or 9 years old. But she remembers she had funny memories with her family. There were no electricity back then, but her family had no problem with it. Philippines also had nice scenery and ocean.  
00:14:51	Gail went back to the Philippines in 1980 which she vaguely remembers, with her mother, father, and one of her sisters, Mary. Gail didn’t know anyone that much in her father’s side of the family, but she knew her mother side of the family. 
00:16:20	Philippines has changed compared to the last time, Gail came when she was 8 or 9 years old. Gail is also glad that her parents took her to the Philippines because it gives her a motivation of being born as a Philippines. To Gail, it felt like she was born there even though she wasn’t really born in the Philippines; they don’t know the language and culture that well. 
00:18:40	Gail remembers vaguely about the airports back then when her parents tried to make sure they were together all the time when they were going back to America from the Philippines. At the airports back then, there was militia, but the family had no worries and had a fun time together.
00:20:27	Gail’s brother, Joey, went to the air force and brought her back at TV back from Japan. But overall, even though she was so young back then, Gail had no scary memories.
00:21:52	Gail’s brother, Joey, never really talked about the experience being in the air force. However, Gail’s father was a POW in WWII and he used told her stories about what he experienced back then in the war. Her mother used to tell her stories on WWII about how she and her husband fled to hill with some of their belongings.
00:24:33	In 1980s, Gail used to hang out at the park because back in the days, kids used to go to park a lot. Her sister, Mary, used to play handball back then and since she was educated, she was allowed to go outside and play. Her other sister, Esther, who was a troublemaker, wanted to go hang out during the night, the parents will usually say no. Gail used to hang out at her elementary school, PS.115.
00:26:46	Gail’s sister, Angie, wanted to go her prom, however, her mother said she could go only if she went to Gail’s dance recital, which is on the same day and time of the prom. 
00:28:19	Gail’s oldest sister, Joanne, had to take care of them since she was oldest sister out of all of them. 
00:29:25	Gail’s husband was half-Japanese and half-Irish. When he first met Gail’s parents, he was nervous and gave them proper respect and her mother liked him already. 
00:29:53	Gail’s father passed away in 1989 and her mother passed away in 1980. Even though her parents passed away, her family still has the Filipino traditions that her parents taught them to do, but less strict. 
00:32:35	Back in the neighborhood, you knew everyone and everyone went to church. These days, the kids don’t go to church often and they are a lot smarter.
00:34:22	her neighborhood changed because the folks has changed. No one knew each other even those that moved in to the neighborhood. Gail tries to get to know her new neighbors in her neighborhood.
00:38:30	When Gail met some Filipinos, Gail tried to talk to them and try to get to know them since in Gail’s neighborhood, there were no Filipinos to talk to. When more Filipinos started to come more often, she started to connect with them. 
