Terrance Kelly who goes by the musical name ÒMr. CheeksÓ is a rapper and hip-hop artist who was born in Jamaica, New York City. Mr. Cheeks was a member of a hip-hop group called ÔThe Lost BoyzÕ. He has two brothers and a sister. His father left his family when he was young and Terrance grew up in a single parent family with his mother. Throughout the interview he discusses his life growing up in Jamaica, Queens. He talks about how he got into rapping and discusses various topics around Queens, and the boroughÕs hip-hop scene and community. 00:01:25 Mr. Cheeks has three siblings, two brothers and a sister. His father left his family when he was young and he and his siblings grew up in a single parent household. 00:02:22 Mr. Cheeks talks about the artists he listened to while growing up in Queens and how he was able to listen to new music playing on the radio and TV. 00:04:04 Mr. Cheeks talks about his childhood and what he used to do for fun back in the day. 00:05:03 Mr. Cheeks talks about the schools he attended and how it was like going to school. 00:06:03 Mr. Cheeks discusses the influence of music videos such as the pioneering music video Billie Jean sung by pop legend Michael Jackson. 00:06:39 Mr. Cheeks talks about the reason he got started rapping and into the local hip-hop scene. He names the people who influenced him and musical peers that he associated with. Mr. CheekÕs older cousin ÒJ-RabÓ taught him how to rap. Mr. Cheeks used to hang out with his friends on along Rockaway Boulevard and would frequent Lincoln Park located in South Ozone. He then talks about having Creole heritage from New Orleans.   00:10:25 Mr. Cheeks discusses the success he found on the road traveling to Virginia to perform shows and rap battles.  00:13:04 Mr. Cheeks discusses the process of getting signed back in the day and how it is has changed significantly. He talks about how the internet has become a powerful medium and tool for getting artist signed.  00:15:36 Mr. Cheeks says that hip-hop has changed because now everyone is all about drugs and being associated with a gang.  00:18:06 Mr. Cheeks advises young kids in Queens to stay in school and not drop out. He also talks about his next projects that are coming out. 00:20:43 Mr. Cheeks talks about Freaky Tah (member of his group) who was killed, music videos and his documentary. 