Elai Tubo was born in Jamaica, Queens, and lived at 175th Place in Jamaica. His mother and father were separated so he lived with his mother and grandmother. He lived in a black neighborhood and they would look after each other. He went to a private school where he was taught valuable lessons.  Elai Tubo started off as a DJ working in clubs in 1971, then later as a record director, recording engineer, and producer. He has engineered and produced R&B, Hip-Hop, Rock & Roll, and Reggae; but what he is known for is for his contribution to what’s called the “golden age” of hip-hop during the 1980s to the early 1990s. At the age of two Elai knew how to play congas, he understood how music affects people and has worked with artists such as Run DMC, Russell Simmons, Kurtis Blow and many others. In 2012 he got his degree in sociology, and is now moving into historical lectures on the music business and hip-hop.  In this Interview, Elai talks about his journey from his DJ life to a producer. He talks about different aspects of DJ’ing, and people he has worked with and hip-hop. 00:01:04 Elai Tubo started off as a DJ working in clubs in 1971, then as a record director, recording engineer and producer. He has engineered and produced records during the golden age of hip-hop. He received his degree in sociology in 2012. 00:05:29 Elai describes the golden age of hip-hop and the role that hip-hop played in dealing social problems, violence and beefs between people in the black society. 00:11:01 Elai was born in Queens. He lived in 175th PL, Jamaica. His mother and father were separated so he lived with his mother and grandmother. He lived in a black neighborhood and they would look after each other. He went to a private school where he was taught valuable lessons.  00:15:03 Elai knew how to play congas at two. He understood how music affects people and talks about the expression of hip-hop and what hip-hop means to him. 00:20:25 Elai DJ’d in the clubs instead of in the park for 14 years because he wanted people who payed to know him. He talks about having consistent crowd, learning which record works and which doesn’t work from DJ’ing. 00:23:13 Elai talks about the reasons he wanted to be in the studio and talks about mixing a record to make it better. 00:28:19 Elai talks about how DJ’s started to replace bands and how records that were played on the radio influenced the people that listened and the DJ. 00:34:30 Before rappers would rap with microphone, everyone would talk on the microphone and then MC’s rocked the party.  00:35:15 Elai discusses how historically black people who are known to create an art form such as tap dancing, jazz or hip-hop and then are not given credit for it. He discusses people stealing creative ideas, and songs and taking them as their own -  and hip-hop being revolutionized and claimed by like Kool Herk and people in the Bronx. 00:41:31 People in Queens had bigger sound systems, but rappers in the Bronx were rocking the party better than the rappers in Queens and the rappers in Queens were mimicking them. Elai discusses where hip-hop started and some people thinking they created it or they created a new form of music.  00:51:08 Elai talks about enrolling for the “Seek Program” when he went to Queens College, his relationship with hip-hop and the people who became famous such as RUN DMC and LL Cool J. 00:56:15 Elai discusses why people didn’t like hip-hop as much as when they were younger, the human experience when the music is played and not caring about where or when hip-hop was created. 00:59:36 Elai talks about his experiences when he was a studio engineer in France, a cultural festival that was held in Queens College the year he graduated, and the reason why he is a good DJ is because he knows when people are telling him they want something. 01:04:32 Looking back, Elai wished he had his name on a record and talks about what he wished he was or had looking back. Elai reflects back on his life, things he has learned and the level of success that the people he has worked with have had.  01:15:10 Elai talks about the time when he was the first DJ to play hip-hop on a daytime radio.    Elai Tubo second Interview on May 17 00:01:06 Elai talks about what music means to him and how music affects our lives. 00:04:31 Elai gives his opinion on Psychoacoustic and talks about effect of music in our feelings.  00:08:02 Elai was concerned with how hip-hop was being defined as criminal element, the gangsters being defined as hip-hop. Elai talks about the things he wants to learn coming back to school. 00:14:54 Elai’s best experience was being in the studio and recording, he loved the studio environment.  00:17:28 His first record that went big from Powerplex studio was a scratch record by Davey DMX, working with Run DMC’s first album. People flew him overseas wanting to work with him. 00:20:21  Elai gives his opinion on the definition of hip-hop and compares his generation to now. 00:24:15 Elai talks about the money deal between artists and record companies. Elai talks about hip-hop having a rebellious nature and people connecting with the artist, and hip-hop not being the same as how it was back in the day. 00:27:20 Artists back in the day did not have the structure to expose their music like we do right now with iTunes, YouTube and the internet. The artists back in the day had to fund themselves and market themselves. People used the radio as a medium to listen to music, while people nowadays can search up any music they want.  00:32:30 New York was the mecca of clubs, Elai not having a sound system of his own worked in a club where they had a sound system. Elai wasn’t like other DJs who played in the parks and battled each other; he wanted to just focus on how he can mix better than other DJs. Elai was asked by record companies to mix with their records, he says that in order to be good DJ you had to buy new records and develop relationships with record companies. DJ’ing was a way for Elai to get into the music industry. 00:40:00 Elai wanted to be out of the club that he was DJ’ing at because of the violence that was happening at the club. 00:42:15 Elai says New Yorkers are able to get exposure to a lot of things from all over the city, but certain people look at hip-hop as in sections where artists would talk about putting barriers in their borough from letting people from different boroughs come. Elai discusses the notion of who did it first in hip-hop and how he sees hip-hop. 00: 50: He talks about the time when he went on a tour with Kurtis Blow and talks about why hip-hop didn’t start in the Bronx. 00:53:18 Elai talks about the racism (sexism?) between male and female rappers when hip-hop first came out and how hip-hop became cultural open to everybody. 00:55:14 Elai discusses what hip-hop is to the youth, hip-hops growth and talks about working internationally. Elai has a problem with disrespecting people and women in hip-hop and acknowledges the youth to voice up. 00:59:00 Elai talks about the importance of human experience and not so much on the art form.     1:02:57 Elai talks about why the music industry gave him and everyone hope because for anyone that didn’t make it out of High School, College and went to jail hip-hop was a way that gave hope. Elai believes that the hope has been snatched away because you could get music for free nowadays where you had to buy it back in the day. 01:08:38 Elai talks about the representation of hip-hop to him and the effect of hip-hop to the world. 