Vivian Warfield has two siblings and was born in Jamaica Hospital in 1945. Vivian studied music and the arts which helped her achieve a great level of skill with musical instruments. In this interview she discusses her story of growing up in Southeast Queens. She also goes into length about the various jobs she held in her life. She also discusses her travels around the world. 
00:00:00
Vivian Warfield talks about her family moving to South Ozone Park Queens to pursue a quieter life.  She talks about discrimination in housing.
00:01:21     
Vivian Warfield talks about the Great Depression of the 1930’s and how banks sold property to whoever had the money. Many of these new property owners were blacks who were employed in civil service.
00:02:14     
Vivian Warfield talks about attending The Delehanty High School. She later goes onto discuss how her family moved to Carlyle Towers which was the second co-op opened in Flushing.
00:03:00     
Vivian Warfield discusses how she attended Boston University for her undergraduate studies.
00:04:05 
Vivian Warfield worked as a professional music percussionist from 1995. She also worked as an arts administrator for over thirty years and decided to become a musician. She accomplished this by traveling the world and meeting professional drummers and musicians from other countries.   
00:05:30
Vivian Warfield talks about her mentor, Papa Ladji Camara, who was from the northern region of Guinea. She recalls her brilliant mentor being able to recite the West African stories and narratives that were passed down before the Arabs invaded the country. 
00:06:35
Vivian Warfield talks about Ivo Araujo, one of the first Brazilians who taught the principles of Brazilian music in New York City. Ivo Araujo’s musical group was called Manhattan Samba Group.
00:08:55
She developed by her skill through her mentor’s teachings on music and culture. Vivian is still learning and finding new styles of music and dance.
00:09:18
Vivian Warfield talks about actress Sarah Jones and how Sarah attended school with her daughter.  Ms. Jones also resided in Vivian’s garden apartment complex, Parkway Village, located in Jamaica, Queens.  
00:09:35
Vivian Warfield describes Parkway Village and how it upheld a nondiscriminatory system for people of color.
00:12:01 
Vivian Warfield continues to describe the talented stage actress Sarah Jones. She recalls Sarah’s skill in being able to perfectly get down her character’s accents and personality traits. Vivian enjoys catching Sarah’s performances when she comes to perform in New York City.
00:13:05
Vivian Warfield was interested in the arts and music from a young age. She grew up in a household that cultivated a strong musical environment. Groups of musicians would play at her house on Sundays. Vivian was always interested in the percussion instruments.
00:15:49
Vivian Warfield recalls a Pepsi commercial with a soundtrack that was recorded in New York City. Her teacher Ivo Araujo assisted her in getting involved the commercial.
00:17:02
Vivian Warfield’s first job was working for the Queens Public Library as a library page re-shelving books. She recalls the branch being located not far from the Van Wyck Expressway.
00:18:15
Instead of going back home during college break, Vivian Warfield stayed in Boston and became a counselor with a summer camp program in Roxbury. Roxbury is Boston’s well-known African American neighborhood.
00:19:09
Vivian talks about the major tragedies that affected her while she was attending Boston University. She talks in depth about the assassination of Malcom X and the murder of the three young civil rights workers in Mississippi. Both events took place during the mid - 1960’s. 

00:21:18
During the 1960’s, Boston University’s black incoming freshman population was dismally low. Vivian’s father wanted to instill according to his word some “Blackness in her.” He arranged for her to take a position at HARYOU-ACT, one of the first anti-poverty agencies created and funded by the federal government.
00:25:07
Vivian Warfield worked in a graphic designing department where she met the second black graphic designer ever to be hired by IBM. He encouraged Vivian to attend school for visual arts and commercial arts.
00:25:29
Vivian Warfield started her own graphic design studio because of the burgeoning printing industry.
00:26:54 
After her printing studio shut down, Vivian started working as a graphic designer for the Phoenix House, a drug rehabilitation program. 
00:28:21
Vivian Warfield talks about how American servicemen returned from the Vietnam War addicted to drugs.
00:29:30
Vivian Warfield talks about how much she hated working for the New York City based TV station WPIX, because of its racist president. She recalls how WPIX almost lost their license because of their discriminatory hiring practices. In order to keep their license WPIX started to employ black people in their studios. 
00:30:13
Vivian Warfield worked at the Ford Foundation which assisted New York City communities with financial issues in addition to national and international programs. They also provided funding for various art administration graduate programs.

00:33:15
Vivian Warfield obtained her master’s degree in arts administration and for a while worked in Ohio. 
00:34:07
Vivian Warfield talks about the elevated subway line that ran along Jamaica Avenue which went down to 169th Street.
00:35:50
Vivian Warfield was hired to direct the Jamaica Center for Arts and Learning (formerly the Jamaica Arts Center) a nonprofit organization located in the downtown Jamaica area. She worked as the organization’s director for five years until she moved onto working in the corporate world. 
00:39:02
Vivian Warfield made plans to leave the corporate work environment. Her employer enticed her to stay by offering her a promotion to Vice President of Human Resources. She declined the offer and instead started her own printing business on Jamaica Avenue. She was the only female franchise business owner back in the late 1980’s and early 90’s.
00:42:17
Vivian Warfield and advertising CEO, Byron Lewis, both took dance classes at the Bernice Johnson Dance School as children. They reconnected years later in the corporate world and both attended an event at Gracie Mansion as dinner guests. After this visit she was offered the position of the Director of the Arts Commission of New York City by Mayor David Dinkins.
00:45:22
Vivian Warfield talks about the visual artist, Hughley Lee Smith, whom she nominated to paint a portrait of former New York City Mayor David Dinkins. 
00:45:40
Vivian Warfield talks about then New York City Mayor Rudy Giuliani and how she used to disliked working for him. She stayed at the New York City Arts Commission until her daughter could finish school. Vivian promptly left the Arts Commission after her daughter graduated college.
00:47:56
After working at the Arts Commission, Vivian embarked on a career as a full-time musician.
00:49:42
Vivian Warfield sold her house in Queens and decided to move to Kensington, Brooklyn.
00:52:35
Vivian Warfield gives advice on art and music. 


Interview Part 2:

00:00:00
In the first part of the interview Vivian Warfield talks about attending the all boys’ private Delehanty High School which was located right down the street from the Central Queens Library. She was the first or second class of female students to enroll in an all-boys private high school.
00:04:00
Vivian Warfield talks about the Parkway Village garden apartment complex known for housing United Nation employees. She talks about Parkway Village’s well-known employees such as diplomat Ralph Bunche who could not live in other area of Queens because of the borough’s discriminatory housing practices. As a result, the United Nations housed its employees on the leased site.
00:06:47
Vivian Warfield talks about how United Nations in 1981 decided against renewing their lease on Parkway Village. This caused the Parkway Village apartment complex to turn into a Co-Op. where Vivian purchased property and raised her daughter there.
00:07:29
Vivian Warfield talks about the HARYOU-ACT and how it was one of the first anti-poverty agencies established in the United States. Vivian worked in the organization’s graphic design department were she designed the posters, banners, and other printed material.
00:11:45
Vivian Warfield talks about starting her own business which was a printing franchise. She was the first African American female franchisees on Jamaica Avenue.
00:13:19
Vivian Warfield talks about her childhood growing up in Southeast Queens. She enjoyed going to the movies, shopping and going to see live theater. Vivian Warfield talks about recommending Hughley Lee Smith to paint Mayor David Dinkins portrait before he left office. Hughley Lee Smith was the first African American to paint a portrait of a mayor in New York.
00:17:40
Vivian Warfield talks about Hughley Lee Smith and when he passed away. Vivian spoke at his memorial which she describes as emotionally moving.
00:18:53
Vivian Warfield speaks about her family’s genealogy. She corrects herself from the first interview that she has origins from the Painter family as well as the Warfield family.
00:20:11
Vivian Warfield talks about when she was the director for the Jamaica Center for Arts and Learning. Around the time of her departure, the organization’s budget had grown to over one hundred thousand dollars. 
00:21:18
Vivian Warfield talks more about Charles Drew Memorial Park in Jamaica. Jamaica and Southeast Queens residents have colloquially renamed it ‘Ajax Park’. Ajax Park is large, contains basketball courts and baseball fields and is located on the Van Wyck Expressway. She also talks about the community and how everyone came together to play in the park.







