[00:00:01] Hi my name is Abdulaziz albarshaa. I will interview with Mr. Edjo Wheeler today is October 27th Location is Plaxall Gallery. Long Island City New York. Hi how are you Mr. Edjo. First of all, can you interduce yourself please.  [00:00:20] Yes. First of all, I just want to say thank you guys for doing this. I think it's a fantastic project that you guys have taken on. I think it's really cool. My name is Edward Joseph Wheeler, everyone calls me Edjo. I am the artistic director of the Plaxall gallery and on the board of directors for Long Island City Artists.  [00:00:43] Aziz: what is your earliest memory of wanting to be an artist?  [00:00:55] Mr. Edjo: My mother was an artist, so I actually don't remember a time where I didn't think I was going to be an artist of some kind. What kind of art that is had changed over time thought I might want to be an illustrator I might want to be an actor, but it was always a part of my life.  [00:01:22] Aziz: what do you like about your work?  [00:01:29] Mr. Edjo: I think it depends on when you ask me because sometimes the hardest things about the work don't pay off until later you know so I don't know. I think actually maybe that is it. That's one of the best things about my work is its hard work that pays off. There's no instant gratification in anything we do. Not that there's anything wrong with that but what we're doing here is we're building something long term and that goes from my personal art as well. None of my work is fast It's all I don't want to say laborious but it's it takes a lot of effort to manipulate the metal in the welding and the grinding and it takes a really long-time and, but I think the payoffs are much higher in the level of fulfillment. After I look at the piece if I know my blood sweat and tears aren't in it and that translates into the other part of my work which is running artistic spaces. It takes a long time to build these things up. I've never walked into an organization that already had their act together or they probably would be working with me in the first place you know so running the space attracting the talent letting the really good talent know you're worth their time and energy is a big part of it and building your audience and getting to a point where it's self-sustainable and profitable that's really hard but there is nothing better you know that's the best part of the work.  [00:03:29] Aziz: how were the arts and the past?  [00:03:36] Mr. Edjo: How were the arts and the past. How were my arts in the past? I guess I'm not certain what the question means you mean like historically art …... Well for me it was again depending on which art I was pursuing at the time when I was younger, I had no idea how to even get close to making it a career. I mean I thought I would have thought that someone would just realize my brilliance. Like only God can write and then I realized I wasn't as brilliant as I've thought it was a lot more competitive than I thought. I think probably the main differences when I was young there was no Internet and you had no way of even finding out who the gallery director was or who is producing work in your area. Like what are you going to do flip through the phone pages you had to go to all the art openings you had to like you had to network that was the only way to find out what was going on. Now you can just look it up online so the access to art has increased tremendously but I also feel like that allows anyone to call themselves an artist and I think that the drink gets diluted after a while you know so like we're inundated with these things we're in inundated with art and artists when we can find out find out whoever is doing what like the world is at your fingertips. Just like everything else but in the art world it was something that really wasn't accessible before and now it is, and I think that leaves it vulnerable to becoming commercialized which it has.  [00:06:11] Aziz: when did you start working with the Plaxall Gallery?  [00:06:18] Mr. Edjo: Well we first started working with the Plaxall Gallery when our arts organization Long Island City Artists was looking for a new home. Now they used to be in the paper factory and that was like eight years ago and they lost the space the building came down replaced which I'm sure we're going to talk about later. The gentrification of the neighborhoods they lost their space. This organization has been around since 1986. Long Island City Artists and they've been looking for a space for a long time so, when I joined the board three and a half years ago one of the first things, we started to do was look up for look around for pop up spaces. In other words, some building owner has a storefront that he's trying to rent so it's empty it's vacant well let us move and there's a very old idea yeah we definitely didn't invent this but we definitely wanted to take advantage of the idea so, we'll say hey we'll turn your space into an art gallery we'll paint the walls white hang art we'll have art openings you can invite your friends leave a name. The temporary gallery after your grandchildren or your grandpa or whatever right and we started to contact business owners and whatnot and Carol Crawford our president of the organization and Steve Cooper our advisory board and lawyer both knew the people who ran the business Plax saw it as a plastics manufacturing and shaping company like their grandfather sort of invented heat vacuum sealant forming plastic you know to like hold an object you know so, they had a successful business. So, they started to buy property. So now they own this block that the galleries on the block across the street another building also. We approached them and said hey you know do you have any space. And they said after about six months of sort of gently nudging them every once in a while, hey remember us just wondering if you had any space. I mean looking back now that I know these people. Everyone asks them for that. I mean it is amazing that we got this space because I mean I'll be hanging out with them at a party and people are coming up to them so, you know we have a Christmas party we wanted to rent out a space or do you have any artist like I mean like it is incessant so, I think the organizations are like those Oregon history reputation may have played a part in us getting their attention because they turned over a thousand square feet to us which was amazing we got a phone call from them and they said here's the space you have that for two months don't get comfortable and it was a print shop and the print shop didn't move out until November 5th no15th. We had an opening scheduled sometime in November and they didn't get out until two weeks before we opened so, in two weeks we had to paint the place we had to hang lights because the old company that was in there took every single lighting fixture with them so, we're in an eight thousand square foot gallery 24 foot high ceilings and there's no lights so, I had to go to Home Depot. We bought all the scoop lights and all those hoop lights we bought all the scoop lights that they had we put we created these two by four beams to clamp the lights onto ran wires all over the place really of some scary electrical work we all fix that now but, in the beginning, it was just about getting it done because we only had the space for like two months a month and a half and we squeezed two exhibitions into that time and now they just keep extending it. Now we've been here for exactly two years right because today's October 27 actually and we they let us know. I think on October 27 that we had the space for November and December so, yeah October 2016.   [00:10:42] Aziz: how do you work as a manager in a Plaxall Gallery and approach your subject?  [00:10:53] Mr. Edjo: Well there's the manager of people and then there's the manager of the art. Those are two those are two separate things. Exactly, you know so you approach your subject if that means more of an artistic in an artistic enough to squeeze an artistic way. Well as a manager as the director of the artistic director I can't just do what I like. I have to do what I think is right for the organization and that will be best for the gallery. I have to take those things into consideration first so, making sure you don't stack up the same kind of show two times in a row you know making sure that you don't have exhibitions that clash like you don't want to put a halloween show next to a domestic violence show right you don't want those in the building at the same time because we basically have three different exhibition spaces you know those shows should not be put in together and you might make someone angry by saying what you mean you don't want to put my show in lights you have to explain to them that you know there are bigger ideas that need to be protected. Right so, first my approach my approach to choosing our subjects is first what is good. Our motto is stolen from what's the author's name. Michael Kaiser an art of the turnaround good art. Well marketed so that's what we're interested in we want to show the best art we possibly can and we want to market it well so that everyone can succeed so, another part of that is both diversity and specificity so, we want to bring in as many new people as possible we want to have as broad a reach as possible. But at the same time, we're still serving a very specific community so, we have to have our member shows and whatnot so not everyone agrees with the tactics we're employing here at the gallery like we get some criticism for letting an outside curators and outside groups opening up the gallery which is run by a local organization to many outsiders and I have very strong feelings about that. I really feel that if you do not let in people from the outside, you're never going to learn your network is never going to grow. It's just not healthy. The only way the organization in the gallery is going to remain healthy and prosperous is if we are bringing in people from outside the neighborhood attract national artists make this a place where everyone is welcome we're still our main focus is still going to be our members it's still going to be western Queens for sure but only through diversity are we going to be able to survive now the next step of that we got even more criticism for which is letting in the performing arts because before we were only painting painters’ photographers sculptors ceramics you know. But now dancers actors musicians they're all allowed to join the organization now that had to go to the board for a vote and the board voted the right way you know they said yes not everyone you know but most of them said yes let's do this so, now what happens is we get to draw from those communities we get to draw from those cultures we get to draw from those networks so, we just had an event here for the Institute for Public Architecture IPA and I like why are we doing that. Why are we giving them this space? Because are architects that is another form of art, we want that represented let them join us and what happened they had a big event here and we sold two paintings from the people who showed up from the IPA. Now that is there is no better proof than we should be opening up to outsiders we should open it up to outside events you know this is a place where everyone should be welcome. All the arts happen here. That's a slogan that I'm trying to pick up for us the arts happen here it doesn't it doesn't matter what kind so, but it also means the other part of that management means that you sometimes you have to say no to things and it's really hard because it's a tight community and sometimes people are they want to do something in the gallery and you don't think it's best for the gallery you don't think it might not be best for the organization so you'd have to say no and that that's really hard you know when you know someone and their artwork might be great or you might not think their artwork is great and you don't want to give them a solo show but they kind of expect one because they know you. So that's a little hard that part that parts a little hard so yeah.  [00:16:47] Aziz: what are the biggest challenges you are facing when starting in your job?  [00:16:55] Mr. Edjo: The biggest challenge in all honesty and I'm hesitant to say this the biggest challenge is convincing people that the plan that we have is a good one and to trust in what we are planning. You have a vision for how the space should work and you're coming to this with a couple of decades of experience. You know this is not as they say my first rodeo. Right. And you can see the path so clearly and when people say to you. Why do we have to share this space with the performing arts you’re like fine. I can't believe you don't know why. The reason is because it is healthy for the organization. The reason why is because we should be promoting all arts and the main idea that I tried to sell that some people get right away but they don't understand the work that's involved sometimes and that is to all right. I can say it this way. Who goes to dance concerts. Other dancers you know who goes to poetry jams other poets you know and their family you know who goes to theater shows and I'm not saying these arts don't have massive followings. I'm not saying that these I do not mean this in a derogatory fashion to any of the arts. I mean it across the board for all arts and that is the people who are into that art form tend to be into that art form and then smaller is a smaller percent of people are into a secondary type of art and then there's a broad spectrum of the population that are into everything just a little bit but that also doesn't mean that there couldn't go out of their way to support these things. Right so if you're a poet how can you broaden your network. We’ll have your poetry jam at our art opening so the people who love painting and poetry a little bit get you experience in poetry the poets the people who follow the poets are now in this great art gallery and they get to see that we do live theatrical performances and one of them is an actor so then that poet then auditions for a play here and gets cast you know so like now we're creating this integrated network an emphasis on the net and emphasis on the work right so, all the artists are connected and we can together be so much stronger than any one thread right so we can catch so much more that way you know but not everyone has to get back to your question eventually. Not everyone feels that way and it's surprising to me that some of the people who still criticize our decisions to do this come to these events and there's like 200 people in the gallery 200 people that never would have been here if it wasn't for that other than the live music concert. The you know the puppet show you know they never would have been anywhere or giving the space over to the PTA. Hundreds of people thousands of people pass through this gallery in London related events to the fine arts. You know that's good for us. But then people don't want us to do it want us to focus too much on the fine art so, that’s hard make that convincing people of your vision. Long story short convincing people of your vision is probably the hardest part. The second hardest part is you know I was going to say raising money. But we've been doing pretty good right now like we're getting by and when we actually when we actually start to focus on fundraising, I think we're going to kill it. The last thing the third thing that is probably the hardest is finding the right people to join your team. You need that person that would rather die than see the project not get finished. You need the kind of person who's willing to stay here till 2 o'clock in the morning and if they can't stay till 2:00 o'clock in the morning then they have some other way of really being dedicated and understanding the needs of what you're doing and having that person be stable. Right so if you can find those team members then you can build something without those other team members if you just have a few violent a few dedicated volunteers or some a couple of people who are getting paid or even a lot of people getting paid. What we are doing cannot succeed without the handful of truly dedicated people that really want this to happen and those are the people who are willing to work for free and even if you are paying them, they work twice as long twice as hard you know, and you need to protect those people you need to make sure that they don't get burned out you need to make sure that people aren't asking too much of them because they're the they are the yes people if you want something done ask a busy person you know that expression right because that's the type of personality that's going to do it so, as a manager you need to be able to protect those people so, that they don't burn out and they can continue to do really good work.  [00:23:21] Aziz: are artists affected by the economic crisis in 2008?  [00:23:33] Mr. Edjo: the economic crisis in 2008 definitely affected everyone. It also created some opportunities and I think in 2008 a lot of areas became more affordable for people. Right you can't charge as much for rent you know some rentals and some spaces became available to artists because they became vacant and they needed to fill them with something. But in 2008 Long Island City was already getting expensive right. They had learned that the developers the business minded people have learned that follow the artists right. So in a little bit of my experience when I first moved here almost 20 years ago I was probably working for one of the last independent art galleries in Soho and that landlord wanted her out so bad but then all the all the artists moved to Williamsburg bush wick Dumbo you know and all those places got expensive so the second they got the whiff that it was going to be long island city next. Everything got expensive right off the bat. So even as early as 2008 long island city was already becoming unaffordable it was already getting expensive. So, I don't actually know how to answer that question except for it was inevitable. Whatever happened to this neighborhood? 2008 really had nothing to do with it i think long island city western Queens was probably immune to that. I think some people were able to buy some cheap property afterwards or some people went bankrupt or whatever you know. But I think the real cheap stuff happened before 2008 and that was part of the problem people got too good of a deal.  [00:25:48] Aziz: what are the best responses you have had in your work?  [00:25:57] Mr. Edjo: The best responses I've had to my work well as a visual artist when I'm sculpting, and I see someone stop and really stare at it and you can tell when someone is really drinking something, and you know. And when I see that you know a tear literally comes to my eye at the foot. The idea that I could affect it affect someone that way you know it's really important to me that I have I've had people think my work is grotesque and I don't see that they do, and I think it's nice that it had such an effect on them. But that's not the effect I want because to me they really are beautiful. There's an emotional struggle behind the sculptures. Both for me to produce them and for the characters you know they're mostly in stages of struggle or release. But to see someone really be affected by my work at the beauty of it is really powerful. I mean that brings it all together and to have the work be part of the conversation is probably the most important thing to me. I would rather give the piece to a museum and have it be on public display for free than sell it to someone for twice its worth and how to sit in someone's library personal library or something or have them store it for late you know like I'd rather give it away and have it be part of the conversation so that it can affect people as an artistic director as someone who runs art spaces. Seeing people. It's the exact same thing seeing people walk into a space and feel transformed feel like they're really experiencing something and with that is promoting the careers of these artists. I mean some of the artists we are working with are pardon my French they are fucking amazing. I mean they are just brilliant artists and they're prolific. They're not the I can't stand these artists that like you know are waiting for inspiration or you know I don't know whatever I mean I'm everything is okay with everyone whatever your process is that's fine but I like working with artists who are like are dedicated on the daily basis who have a certain amount of discipline to their work and even if they don't necessarily like what they're doing the show pushing forward still learning they're still. I mean it is what they do. Right so I want to see them get promoted. I want to see their careers move forward. I want to create a space where that can happen and if it's a musician or an actor you know we've had some amazing art in this space performance art Tana's who are performing arts director is responsible for bringing in 90 percent of the amazing arts that we're that we're doing here let's just see that I'm trying to see people at one of the plays we produce cry to be able to look because you know I see the plays ten you know so after a while you're not only looking at the play you're while you're watching the audience responses and you look down the row you know that you're in are to kind of go off to the side and watch the audience responses and to see like 10 people in the audience crying now my goal is to make people cry. But the goal is to emotionally affect people and I think that's what we do. I think that's what we're doing. That's my favorite part that’s the best responses crying people.  [00:30:05] Aziz: let's talk about your old neighborhood. What is your first home?  [00:30:16] Mr. Edjo:  I was born in Tucson Arizona and I lived there all my youth. I didn't leave until my mid -20s and that's my first time.  [00:30:33] Aziz: how did you live there?  [00:30:40] Mr. Edjo: Yeah, I lived there I lived there until my mid-20s I mean I moved back a couple of times but when I came to New York that was.   [00:30:49] Aziz: so was their neighborhoods Association. Do you know about it?  [00:31:04] Mr. Edjo:  the neighborhood associations like back home. Well I don't know if this is what you mean but like I have a group of guys that I've known since elementary school and that's that's my association. That's okay What's up. [00:31:39] Aziz: where did you get the news for what's happening in your neighborhood?  [00:31:45] Mr. Edjo:  Well when I was younger. Well it was the local news that my parents would put on at 10:00 p.m. every night and the morning newspaper which my parents read every morning you know there was no other way to get news on that. Again, no internet back then.  [00:31:39] Aziz: what are the biggest changes experienced in your neighborhood?  [00:31:54] Mr. Edjo:  The biggest the biggest changes I've experienced in my neighborhood. Well that's an interesting thing about Tucson is it doesn't change that much. Tucson has remained the same. What's the biggest change. I got older. That's the biggest change me and all the people I grew up with are now almost 50.  [00:32:00] Aziz: Why did you move to New York City?  [00:32:34] Mr. Edjo:  I originally moved to New York in general for the Arts. I had been actually earning my living as a stunt man and traveling around the country doing stage combat outdoor theater and film and television. And I wanted to get out of that. I wanted to get back into just acting actually which I was hoping would lead me to directing and I instantly got back into the right direction and stunts, so I came here for the Arts. I have frequently said if it wasn't for the arts, I wouldn't be I wouldn't be living in here. But I'm pretty dedicated to New York now.  [00:33:10] Aziz: how the environment in Queens has changed throughout the years?  [00:33:20] Mr. Edjo:  Long Island City when I first started coming here 18 years ago it was a little bit more desolate. There was a lot more empty lots. There was a lot more empty buildings but it was. Things were already starting to get filled and they were already starting to build up, but I caught just the tail end of this being a vibrant arts community but still a little bit off the beaten path and over the past almost 20 years. It's become a lot more corporate. There’s tons of site skyscrapers and the amount of development is is intimidating and it's becoming expensive. There's no place to park you know the subways packed so I don't know if this kind of growth is sustainable thing. I think there's going to have to be better city planning here soon.  [00:34:15] Aziz: in the past, how the community uses public spaces: for example, annual festivals and celebrations?  [00:34:28] Mr. Edjo:  How does the community use public spaces.in the past do you want me to lead that into currently. Yeah, I mean there's always been like arts fairs and arts organizations and I think now with social media and with social media it's easier way to bring people together. I think there's more organizations I think there's more groups. I think there is a better understanding that everyone has to work together that the ideas you can't just do your own little pocket thing that broadly we all have to approach public policy together. It's probably one of the biggest dilemmas western Queens is facing right now is how do the artists stay here. And I think one of the only ways artists are going to be able to stay here is if they partner with the people who have money who own the buildings who own the businesses who are developing stuff and who are making the policies you have to appreciate yourself and them you have to show that you have something valuable to offer a neighborhood. And that is no one wants to live in the neighborhood. That's not cool no plans to live in a neighborhood that doesn't have art you know so that's a little off topic but that's a really important aspect to this neighborhood. It was created. It's become popular because of the arts not created to become popular because of the arts. It's a cool place to live. There's lots of things happening. You can't just cement over all of it and put up glass domes right you have to work this element. This artistic texture back into the environment back into the neighborhood and the landscape.  [00:36:10] Aziz: what are your predictions of change over the coming years in in the art world?  [00:36:23] Mr. Edjo: Well I think I lead into that a little bit with a previous question because it's probably the most important thing that we're dealing with now is what is the future of arts again in western Queensland and more broadly and I think in a lot of urban centers and that is it needs to become of interest to people outside of the arts right. You have to make the arts. You have to work it into the policies of the city. If you don't. Every time a neighborhood becomes popular all the artists get pushed out the neighborhood becomes sterile and then eventually, I don't really know what happens to those neighborhoods you know. So, who is a fantastically successful area. It used to be a place for the arts but who lives in Soho now I mean like you know it's who wants. It's just a giant mall. You know and if that's what we want out of every single one of our arts centers like what Dumbo was what Williamsburg was. Long Island City is and maybe was you know it needs to be protected. I think a large part of that responsibility falls to artists. You have to start seeing yourself as a business person. You have to see yourself as someone who has to get along with these people. They are not people to fight. They are people who offer opportunity. We don't stop seeing them as others they're not. Others they're just they're just people and they might be business minded but art is also a business and you can make yourself more valuable by getting along with them and not seeing someone that should be that you should be fighting. In addition, they need to open up their minds and sometimes their pocket book and like you know have someone curate your lobby you know you have a more affordable housing than that lower economic groups can apply to. So, what's the change in the coming years. It's going to be a little bit more regulated. The days of the Wild West where you just take over some vacant building and turn it into a loft space is over. It's over that doesn't exist anymore. So where are you going to live and where are you going to work. Well we all have to stick together and create art centers places where there are studios where we can come together raise money together so that there are opportunities for all of us. I don't see any other way of making it happen or move someplace else where it hasn't happened yet.  [00:39:08] Aziz: are there plans to expand the center in the coming years?  [00:39:21] Mr. Edjo:  Yes so the owners of the building want to keep us with their new plan and that would look like you know a space a little bit larger so that we can incorporate more opportunities for artists and be a little bit more stable to know that we're going to be you know I don't know we have a lease you know or we raised enough money to buy our own property or you know just a more stable situation where we can offer more opportunities so you know to have a dedicated performance space to have a dedicated gallery space so we don't have to split those things you know we want to offer more studios who want to offer more education we want a full program. We want to be open seven days a week. You know so that's the direction we're looking. We're looking to we're looking to grow and it's only because of plaques all that we've been able to do this before. Plax all lent us the space. We really didn't have the resume to expand. And what they are doing for us for the organization and for the community by providing this space to become a fine arts community center is as far as I'm concerned. Priceless. No arts organization can afford the space that the black soil gallery is donating does right now. You know so we just want to take that and build on it just keep going in that direction.  [00:41:00] Aziz: is there anything you would like to add?   [00:41:08] Mr. Edjo:  you're a good interviewee, thank you for your time. I would like I would like to add that I think I think since this is for the archives you know I think what I would like to say is find out what's in your heart and be willing to work hard for it. You know don't make working hard a dirty word you know don't let people make you feel bad because you know what you mean you worked until 9 o'clock on something that's crazy. That's like well if you're loving it yeah if you love it and it's really in your heart you have to put in the extra time you have to be able to sacrifice something for it and maybe the question you shouldn't be asking yourself is what would what would make me happy what would I be. What would I like to do you know I think maybe a better question is what I am willing to sacrifice for you. I think that's an incredibly clarifying question.  [00:42:07] Aziz: thank you so much. Mr. Edjo.  