Yama talks about growing up in Harlem and Northern Bronx. He talks about the various things he witnessed like gang violence and police brutality. He talks about how he took solace from the struggles in basketball and later poetry. He talks about how his wife and his kids have changed his outlook on life. Even though he is in the shelter, he has become more positive. He is itching to leave and start a life where he does not feel imprisoned by the worsening conditions of the shelter. He talks about how it has taken a toll on the kids he is raising. He ends the interview by freestyling a poem.  00:00:20 Ð Yama grew up in Harlem with his grandparents. He talks about the alcohol problems his grandfather had. He did not know his father and did not have a good relationship with his mother.  00:02:00 Ð At the age of 4, he moved to the care of a foster parent. He saw violence when he was really young in terms of gunshots. His mother later moved him away from his community so he felt alone and tried to commit suicide.  00:03:30 Ð In his new environment, he encountered one of the cityÕs biggest gangs, the Black Spades. He got bullied a lot in the projects all the time. He had to join gangs to get along with the people of his neighborhood.  0:05:00 Ð He did not feel comfortable in the gang life so he started focusing more on basketball. It became his escape from all the trouble in his life. The happiness was in the kids not the parents. There was a party on his block every weekend. Yama made the newspaper for his basketball skills four times.  0:06:30 Ð His school skills eroded because he did not have parental supervision. He started taking drugs at the age of 9. He essentially took care of his family.   0:07:30 Ð His mother removed him from the basketball team and threw out his basketball newspaper clippings. Then he got an athletic scholarship for college but his mother refused to complete the application so he could not do it. 0:09:15 Ð Yama considers himself self-taught in everything. He learned a lot of skills by himself like painting, waxing the floor, picking locks. He moved from Soundview to Kingsbridge. He lost the ÒprotectionÓ of the community he had in Soundview. People from Kingsbridge looked at Soundview people with disdain.  0:11:30 Ð The tensions between the two communities resulted in Yama getting into a fight with Kingsbridge people. He started losing his interests in basketball and instead started writing poetry. He found solace in poems. It kept him very engaged. He took up a security guard job. At his workplace, he would sell his work. He started entering poetry contests and he wrote a book called ÒClosed Eyes Have VisionsÓ. He wrote it after he cleaned up and stopped using drugs once and for all.  0:15:00 Ð Janet came into his life and she cleaned out the toxic people in his life and gave him a better family. He wanted to protect and strive for his family.  0:18:20 Ð He ended up in Queens because he had to go on welfare and stopped getting money from Adult Protection Services. He is part of Fourth World, a movement to rid the world of poverty. Since he got to the shelter, he has taken part of a lot of activities like starting a business, buying DJ equipment, going around the country to talk about living in poverty.  0:21:00 Ð Yama talks about his plans once he gets out of the shelter. He hopes to start working because he has been living off Social Security and other sources of welfare. He is using the shelter as a building block for his family and himself. Even though he feels he is old, he has a lot to teach his children.  0:24:00 Ð He talks about his confrontations with the police. He talks about meeting with the police during the Amandou Diallo shootings. Yama stood as a liaison between the police and his community members. He was shot at. He talks about more of the violence he saw in the shelter.  0:28:00 Ð Yama talks about the shelter environment. He mentions how he does not interact much with the people who are in the shelter. He does not come down to the cafeteria too much anymore. He has never seen so many young people in the shelter. They have been robbed of some of their stuff in the shelter. When he leaves, he hopes to buy a car. He is happy how his kids have grown up thanks to the Queens College Big Buddy program. His kids have been featured on the news a couple of times.  0:33:30 Ð He has been in the shelter for five years. He has felt like it has become more of a jail. They built another door which he feels infringes on everyoneÕs privacy. He hates the metal detector, the curfew, all of the books he has to sign to get out. He has left the premises of the shelter a couple of times to speak at events.  0:36:30 Ð He talks about how his kids, because of how they look, get special treatment at school. Yama does not like that. Strangers always tell him his kids are cute. He thinks his sons have become conceited because of all of the attention they get. He talks about how much they have grown.  He talks about how Big Buddy has helped his kids, Matt and Mark, calm down. 0:41:00 Ð He shows the wounds he has suffered throughout the years. He showed his colostomy scars. He talks about the hardships he has dealt with because of his wounds. Because of his scars, he was encouraged to speak to wounded veterans.  0:45:15 Ð He got involved with the UN because of his wife. He only comes downstairs to maintain the peace between the residents of the shelter. He does not believe in religion. But, he does believe in a higher power. He thinks all of the worldÕs religions have the same message of loving God first. He talks about trying out religions.  0:50:00 Ð He talks about running with the Navajos in Tennessee. He was scared because it was in heavy KKK country.  0:52:30 Ð He got through all of his negative experiences by reflecting on them. He says he did not have time to do that before. He would not take the weight. Things started to change when he had a kid. He has better friends now that have helped him stay positive. He tries to save 10% of everything he earns. He learned other money saving strategies like going to thrift stores. He ends the interview with a freestyle poem.  