Jim Wynne was born in Brooklyn and raised in Great Neck, NY. After graduating from Harvard University, he has worked as a physicist for IBM since 1969, first in Zurich, Switzerland and now in New York. He visited the WorldÕs Fair in 1965 with his wife. His memories and reflections on the Fair focus on the technological innovations, and the connections to later technological developments. He discusses the IBM Pavilion and the New York Hall of Science in particular detail. He reflected on the Belgian Waffles.   00:00:01 Overview of background and professional life, including an early career as a tennis player. Wynne discusses his most significant memories of the WorldÕs Fair: eating waffles and ice cream in the Belgian Village and riding the cable car.   00:02:08 Visiting the IBM Pavilion, which was an egg-shaped building and contained one of the earliest speech recognition machines. The machines were very big. Wynne also visited the New York Hall of Science, which contained rockets donated by NASA, which included the original mercury capsule. They visited the New York State Pavilion for the first time during the anniversary festival in 2015. He also remembers DisneyÕs ItÕs A Small World and Pieta at the Vatican Pavilion.   00:08:00 Childhood in Great Neck, NY and visiting the Flushing Meadows park for the first time for the WorldÕs Fair. Reflects on Robert CaroÕs The Power Broker and how it may have effected on memories of the WorldÕs Fair. Corrosion of the rockets in the Hall of Science.   00:10:46 Visited the Fair as a newly-wed, while living with parents during the summers in graduate school. The WorldÕs Fair was a highlight of the summer. In the AT&T Pavilion they had picture phones Ð the technology existed, but there was no infrastructure to support this technology. The international pavilions predated the similar international village at Disney World. Similarly the food pavilions were great, and allowed him to try different cuisines. The Fair as a way to learn about different cultures.  00:16:26 Attending the WorldÕs Fair anniversary festivities, and waiting in line to eat a Belgian Waffle.   