Rahim and Akim are friends, both originally from Algeria.  Rahim is a network engineer and Akim drives a yellow taxi cab.  They talk about how coming to the mosque is for prayers but is also a good opportunity to see and catch up with friends.  They conduct daily prayers wherever is convenient; at the different mosques throughout Astoria, or when a mosque is not possible, wherever they happen to be.  Rahim mentions he has lived in many different parts of the world; usually it’s “the same people and same way of life”.  He also talks about the way in which after an incident like 9/11 blame is targeted at the whole Muslim population – whereas when people of other religious beliefs are involved it is the individual, not the religion as a whole, which is blamed.  “There’s bad and good everywhere…You can’t generalize.”  Context of interview: “30th Ave – A year in the life of a street” project (www.30thAve.org). Transcript notes for research  Rahim [R]: My name is Rahim.  I’ve been here about 10 years.   I am a network engineer.  Akim [A]: My name is Akim and I’ve lived here almost 22 years here in Astoria.    R: We both are originally from Algeria.  I come to the mosque when I have a chance.  There’s no counting, you know.  From what I know this mosque has been here a long time – at least before I arrived here.   You come here and do prayers and go home, nothing special.  You just do the pillar.  It’s part of life.  And you meet friends, sometimes you see people you don’t see otherwise during the day.  It’s both things – you do prayer and you get to meet your friends.   A: A mosque is a mosque, it’s a house of God right, so we come here to do the five times praying a day.  And like my friend says, it’s whenever you have a chance.  It doesn’t have to be this particular mosque, we have like five or six of them around here.  So if you caught, you know if you’re stuck in Steinway Street we have to pray there, we don’t come here.  If I lose the timing then I pray wherever, in the house.   R: Prayer is not linked to a mosque.  You can do it anywhere, in a park, in a house, restaurant, wherever you are.    A: But the group mosque is important.  Praying in a group at a mosque, the rewards is much more better, bigger than doing it by yourself.  Doing it by yourself you get one point.  Doing it in the mosque you get 27 points.  You’re collecting more goods.  The more you collect goods the more you will be saved at the end of this life, at judgment day.  That’s how I believe, you know.   I drive a taxi.  Yellow cab.  No [don’t enjoy it].  But I do it.  It’s a living you know.   R: A job is a job.  There are people from everywhere.  From Asia, Africa, Europe.  A: All the continents.  And different cultures.  You come you do what you do and that’s it.  Sometimes they offer food here, some exotic food, and you go for it, otherwise you leave.   Fridays is like Christian Sunday.  And you’d see more people coming here on Friday.    R: Re. Sep 11th: There’s bad and good all over.  If you look at McVeigh in Oklahoma, he’s not a Muslim.  Sometimes what you notice is if something happens when someone’s Muslim, they go after everyone, they put more pressure.  But if it’s someone from another religion, they say it’s ok, that guy did it, they don’t say Christians did it, they say Timothy McVeigh did it. But if a Muslim does it they say Muslims did it.  So they’re generalizing, taking advantage of it, with the community.  That’s what we feel.   It happened so it happened, it’s not in your control.  There’s bad and good everywhere.  As a human being.  In the first place we are all human beings.  You can’t generalize. The changes here, well the police have statistics which show Astoria is much better now.  As Muslims have moved in here there has been less burglary, it’s become safer.  It’s the police saying that not me.  I don’t know if I’ll stay in Astoria.  You don’t know what comes after you know.  Nobody knows what comes.  You might be here, then somewhere else, maybe in Europe.  Maybe in Africa.  It’s all the same really, mother earth you know.  Wherever you are going is the same people and same way of life.  People are not really different here or somewhere else, it’s all the same. I’ve lived a little bit in New Jersey, Brooklyn, Manhattan, you know, all over.  A bit in England, a bit in Africa.  I’ve been in a different areas.  And it’s the same way of life.  You go to work, you have your family, basic.  How people behave in an area makes it good.  Astoria, Manhattan, what’s the difference, you know.  Maybe just that in Manhattan people are richer, that’s all.  But what’s the difference, you know?  In Astoria, the real estate is cheaper and in Manhattan it is expensive, that’s the difference.  A: Astoria used to be cheap, not any more.  Yes the rents going up.  Since the crisis, people can’t afford the rent in Manhattan, so they move over here, and what’s happening is by moving over here, the rent also gets higher over here.  I’ve been in three different places in the last 22 years in Astoria.  I’m right here on Crescent Street and 31st Avenue.    R: You should come here to the mosque when they have food –they have it once a month.  On a Saturday every month. 