00:00:03 	Queens Memory interview with Mary Abbate at the Queens Community House at 108-25 62nd Drive in Forest Hills. Mary is the Associate Executive Director. It is August 6, 2018 at 1:55 PM.

00:00:46	Mary was born on June 9, 1961 at the Kew Gardens Hospital which no long exists.	

00:01:03	Mary’s mother was raised on the Upper East Side, in East Harlem, an Italian American Community. Her father was raised in Brooklyn.

00:01:21	Her grandparents arrived in New York in the early 19th century, from Italy. Her mother’s side was from Bari, Italy. Her father’s side was from Sicily. Mary knows more about her mother’s side as she lived with her maternal grandparents and visited a lot with her extended family. Family members came to the house every week.

00:01:56	Her paternal grandfather died before Mary was born and her paternal grandmother died when Mary was young. There was less story telling about them. Her father’s story was about growing up. But she heard stories about her maternal grandmother growing up in Italy. These stories were about letting go. When you left Italy, you left. Why would you want to go back?

00:03:00	Mary’s parents met in their late teens/early 20’s at a church dance. They  got married. Her grandmother moved from an apartment building in Manhattan to Queens where there was space. Her grandfather had a factory which produced goods for the airlines, but he lost his business during the depression. Her grandmother saw a lot of construction on the Upper East Side, bought a deli, and learned to cook food for the community – primarily German and Hungarian - and kept the family going. 

00:04:36	Her grandmother followed her oldest daughter to Astoria and eventually bought a small apartment building there. Mary’s other aunt and uncle moved in when they got married. Mary’s parents also moved in. They all had their own apartments and paid rent to the grandmother.

00:05:46	In the late 1950’s,  everyone started moving further out in Queens to more suburban/rural parts. Her aunt was in Bayside. Her other aunt and uncle moved to Auburndale. Her parents moved to a two-family house in Flushing and her grandparents moved in with them (171st off Northern Blvd). Mary was born there. Mary’s background is Roman Catholic.

00:07:38	Mary grew up in Flushing. Her family moved to 43-32 167th Street, a big Tudor house, with her parents and grandparents.  Mary then described the living arrangements. It was a suburban setting, with lawns and suburban houses. The children played on the street and there were gangs in the school yard. It was an ethnic neighborhood with Italians, Germans, Irish, Jews, Puerto Ricans, and an Armenian family next door. There was an American family across the street that could trace it history very far back and they were admired. Mary’s family was loud, and everything was cooked with tomato sauce on it! Her best friend lived across the street and was from Puerto Rico. 

00:11:15	The children played on the street at night. Before air conditioning, on hot nights, they would sit on the stoop.  Their neighbors’ property was their playground, they were out until 11PM on Saturday nights. Her grandmother was the guardian of the block.

00:12:10	Mary would take neighborhood walks with her grandparents. Her grandmother was friends with the Chinese owner of laundromat.  She would stop to talk with another older person, who was also Chinese. They both had broken English. Her grandmother spoke an Italian dialect. They had a bond because of their age.

00:13:48	Mary went to the UA Quartet Movie Theatre. It was 75 cents for a double feature.  Her first date was there when she was 13 years old.

00:14:35	Mary remembers the Copper Penny (a diner) and the first time she had pancakes. There was a Chinese restaurant. That was very exotic. The family ate there once a month. 

00:15:41	Mary went to PS 107 for kindergarten. From first to eighth grade (late 60’s, early 70’s), she went to a Catholic School, St. Andrew Avellino, which was a big community. She followed her brother, who was a great student. Mary was told by teachers that she was not her brother. She questioned things, but she was a good student. The school was in Flushing, at Northern Blvd. and 158th Street (35-60 158th Street, Flushing). Her parents were very involved in the school.  

00:17:11	At the time, people were very engaged in their community and were Church goers.  Her parents were very involved in the school. Her father was a coach for CYO and her mother was in the Rosary Society that raised money for the school. It was a very close community. Mary’s friends came from that school.  Her friends on the block were weekend friends, these were her school friends. Mary was very influenced by Catholicism. Her parents canvassed for politicians and bowled.

00:19:09 	At the time, the Catholic Church (1970’s) was open to exploration of other religions and  there were interfaith activities. Mary was very interested in other religions.  Her father had grown up in Williamsburg and had a lot of Jewish friends that influenced him about education. Her parents would later, through clubs and other experiences, be exposed to diversity, beyond the Italian community. This also happened as Mary and her brother began dating outside the Italian community.

00:21:40	(1970’s) Mary went to Catholic high school, the  Mary Louis Academy (Jamaica, Queens). Mary talked about distancing herself from, and questioning, the Catholic Church.  She talked about volunteering in the mental health area. Later, as an adult, she understood the need for institutional religion, community and ritual, and does miss that.  She feels that communities are more alienated now – her family is not part of strong organizations. Her daughter might be missing out because of that.

00:24:58	Mary went to Union College in Schenectady, NY. She was not following the Catholic path any more. Her college friend, Ruth Schick, was one of her biggest influencers in college.  She exposed Mary to the world of literature and art.  Mary’s parents worked two jobs to send the children to private school and college, so Mary felt that if she needed anything extra, she should work. She worked as a waitress at a fraternity, in the school pizzeria, and in the school kitchen.  This exposed Mary a bit to the world.  She met people of color and people of other classes. She recognized her deficits - that her parents did not go to college.  But when she was in the kitchen, she saw how much she had compared to the other workers. It was an eye opener.

00:30:04	(1970’s early 1980’s) When Mary graduated college she wanted to stay in Schenectady.  Her friend Ruth was there, and Mary enjoyed the outdoors. She wanted to live there independently.  She worked for a year and  eventually got a job in a supportive housing environment . She worked there for two years. She then decided she needed to come back to New York. She missed New York and Ruth was leaving Schenectady. Mary needed to continue her education and come back to New York to pursue a social work career and be in an urban environment.

00:33:04	Mary moved in with her parents, who had moved to a condo in Oakland Gardens, Queens.  She went to graduate school at Hunter College. She paid for it herself – it was the path to where she is today.

00:33:55	(1980’s) During her second year at Hunter, Mary interned at the Forest Hills Community House (now Queens Community House). Mary was interested in housing and urban planning.  She chose social work at Hunter because it had a community organizing-planning track. She wanted to work in an urban setting.  The Forest Hills Community House had a housing and homelessness prevention opportunity placement. Her first-year placement was in Manhattan, but it was a very long commute to Queens. She met the Associate Executive Director at the time, Irma Rodriquez, who is well known in the field of social work and housing. She was a very open, friendly, nurturing person.  Mary started in 1986 and never left. 

00:37:10	Queens Community House is settlement house. It is multi-service, multi-contact, community minded, working with people’s strengths. Mary’s position constantly changed and evolved and her life, as a Queens person, revolved around the Community House. Mary met her husband through a colleague.

00:38:51	Mary started as a student intern doing tenant organizing and counseling. When hired, she started new programs including the Queens Child Care Network and a program to help homeless families find housing.  Over time her responsibilities expanded. In 1991 she created the Eviction Prevent Unit and 1996 she took on supervision of the Early Childhood Center In 2000, the Community House absorbed an adult education program that another organization was letting go of, and the organization took over the Pomonok Center in 2006,  Mary oversaw the community organizing and food access work there.

00:41:10	The 2008 recession hit the Community House hard. They  lost significant funding,  including for administrative costs. When the person in charge of seniors retired, the new Executive Director, (Ben Thomases), restructured, and senior services fell under Mary.  Now the Community House has two departments: Youth Services and Senior/Community Services which are close in budgetary size. 

00:43:12	When Mary started working at Forest Hills Community House, the housing work focused on coop conversions. In the 1980’s, even though Forest Hills was very middle class, the coop conversions were devasting. A lot of rent stabilized units were lost. Working class people and seniors lost their homes because of eviction plans. Forest Hills Community House advocated for non-eviction plans, but a lot of units were lost, and a lot people were displaced. 

00:45:46	Mary is still engaged with homelessness and eviction prevention intervention. In the 1990’s, the Community House was engaged mostly  with the Black and Latino population with legal status. Since 2008, everyone is dealing with homelessness: immigrant households of a variety of ethnicities and older adults.  The lack of affordability is severe.

00:47:13	Forest Hills Community House was established with the Forest Hills Cooperatives to serve the residents moving to the public housing complex and to connect them to larger community. They very quickly moved beyond Forest Hills, expanding to run both the Rego Park Senior Center in Lost Battalion Hall and school-based, after-school programs in Briarwood. The eviction prevention unit was in South East Queens and the Rockaways. The Queens Child Care Network moved to Corona, Elmhurst, Woodhaven and recently to Flushing and Bayside.

00:49:20	For the future, the Community House is structuring around the settlement house model – being embedded in the community - cradle to grave, multi-generational. It offers comprehensive youth services - you can come to the community house as a young person, and be sustainable through education or employment, with a sense of purpose, value, and competency, through all age groups. When you are 18-21, you have the work skills, knowledge, support system, and leadership skills to contribute back to the community. You are the future, with leadership and ownership of the community.

00:52:14	Mary moved to Fresh Meadows in 2006. Before that, she lived (1986-2006) in Oakland Gardens, in the Windsor Park apartments.  When she was pregnant, she  wanted to be close to both her parents who would care for her daughter (her parents had retired) and a good school (PS 205Q). Her husband was originally from Manhattan and thought Queens would be too quiet.  Mary’s husband now loves the quiet and is a Queens person.

00:53:47	In 2006, Mary’s parents were thinking about assisted living, but her mother was not sure, and she wanted to be close to her grand-daughter.  They decided to look for a two-family home.  That was how Mary had grown up, in a multi-generational household.  One day on a bike ride, Mary saw a huge house with a for-sale sign in Fresh Meadows. It had  5 bedrooms, 4 baths, a first-floor bedroom with a back entrance and bathroom, which would be great for her parents They bought the house (75-20 195th Street) in 2006 and Mary’s family and her parents moved in. They had separate living areas and shared the kitchen.  

00:56:12	The house is near Cunningham Park. They had to be near a park – before that her mom lived near Ally Pond Park. Her mother was a walker and needed to be near the park. There was also a bocce ball court. Mary’s daughter could stay in the same junior high school. Her husband does not drive. He needed to be near public transportation. He now takes the local bus to the E train. He works for WNET in Manhattan. When he worked in the South Bronx, he took the express bus to the 6 train.

00:58:00	Mary did not want her daughter to go to Jamaica High School, the zoned school, and she was lucky and got into Cardoza High School, through a dance program. She could get there easily on a bus, but Mary drove her. Mary is a driver, as was her mother. This was important to her mother, because driving leads to independence. 

1:00:12	Mary gets around by car and bicycle. She rides her bicycle to work along Jewel Avenue or through Flushing Meadows Park. She thinks about Helen Ho, another Queens’ resident, who is an advocate for biking.

1:01:06	Fresh Meadows is mostly single-family houses.  There is a multiple block radius of similar homes, established between 1940-45. There are a lot of gardens and green space. The neighborhood includes Cunningham Park and 73rd Avenue. It is very pretty. Cunningham Park is the park for Jamaica and Queens Village. It has concerts, picnics, fireworks, and a wonderful community spirit.

01:02:27	Fresh Meadows is a very diverse community. Mary has neighbors from Uzbekistan, Israel, China, and throughout Asia.  It feels like Queens.  

01:03:11	There are apartment buildings that are very historic. They were  built by major architect in the 1950’s, in art deco style, near 188th Street. 

01:04:55	Long Island City development scares Mary, but  change is inevitable. Her daughter thinks apartment buildings are more sustainable, but Mary thinks the open space and back yards, where kids play is still important. She hopes Queens can remain grounded.  Her neighbors have similar and simple lifestyles – raising kids, going to work, talking to each other and looking out for each other. Mary is not close to her neighbors,  but they are friendly and work together on issues/problems. Dogs and kids bring people together. 

01:09:38	Queens always had religious freedom and diversity. It is what Americana should be. The United Nations was here, and the airports are here. She wants it to continue this way, where people can feel they belong here, thrive here, go to school here. Mary then told a story about her daughter who went to college for two years at Tulane but felt like a stranger.  She could not find  people who represented her friends from her public high school in Queens. Her friends were  every color, race and ethnicity. There was also little class diversity at college. Her daughter does not feel comfortable any place else. 


01:13:52	Mary’s daughter is working at Queensboro Community College and hanging out with her friends.  She sees the world even differently than Mary. Although Mary’s social network is inclusive. Mary still contends with identifying people first by their appearance, such as race.  Mary still has to push back on the racist influences abundant in her childhood.  However, Mary finds solace in her borough and city. Few places offer her what Queens can.  Not many places are as comfortable as “home” is.  When away, especially if traveling in the States, She misses the colors, the flavors, the diversity that Queens offers.  If a place is too white, she feels that it is not right, that she is losing out.  Her daughter sees it is not home unless diversity of people surrounds her.  

01:16:14	Mary’s hope for Queens is that the next generation is globally comfortable-meaning diversity is appreciated and valued; that difference of race, ethnicity, creed, life style, and gender identity is as common and accepted as the variety found in flora.  She hopes her daughter and her friends make new traditions and share rituals.  

01:17:41	End of the interview with Mary Abbate at the Queens Community House, at 108-25 62nd Drive in Forest Hills. It is August 6, 2018 at 3:10 PM.



















	

