Ralph and Yury Almaz are brothers from Uzbekistan, who set up their own jewelry store on Astoria's 30th Ave in 1985. They specialize in engagement and wedding jewelry. They buy many of their products at the bi-annual jewelry fairs at Jacob Javits Convention Center in Manhattan but then customize it themselves. Ralph focuses on the front of shop work, and Yury on customizing the jewelry. Yury's son is in the diamond cutting business in Israel, and they import some of their diamonds from there. At the moment a lot of people are coming into the shop to sell their old gold items. Context of interview: "30th Ave -A year in the life of a street" project (www.30thAve.org). Transcript notes for research Ralph Almaz (RA): We opened this store 26 years ago, 1985, me and my brother Yury. We're originally from Uzbekistan. We come from generations of jewelers in Uzbekistan. Our grandfather used to be in the business so when we came to this country we decided to open this jewelry store. It always was a dynamic neighborhood, very colorful and multi-ethnic. It's kept the same way all these years. Now we see a lot more young professionals moving in though. Our specialty is engagement rings and bridal jewelry, wedding bands etc. We also do custom jewelry. Sometimes it's happened that people bring the ring back. So in that case we offer them to restyle the ring, if they don't want it to look like an engagement ring. Or if not they can sell it back. They take a loss of course -but we offer to buy it back. We attend the international jewelry shows at Jacob Javits Convention Center and they represent jewelers from all over the world. Italy, Hong Kong, Israel, Turkey, Brazil. So we do shopping there. It takes place in NYC twice a year. Winter show and summer show. Most of it we buy there but then most of it we custom create in our store. Watches are also very popular, all different brands. It is possible to go back to Uzbekistan. We don't go very often. Most of our family hs left but we have some people left there, some friends and relatives. It wasn't so easy when we left to communicate. It was during the iron curtain in the late seventies. But now it's very open and people can come here, we can go there, talk on email, skype etc. Each of us has his own portion of the work. My area is here in the floor and customer relations and my brother is in the back of the shop where he does the customizing of the jewelry. Yury Almaz (YA): I also work in some manufacturing of diamonds in Israel. My family is in this business and my son is in this business, and we import diamonds from Israel also. They are the biggest cutters of diamonds. The large diamonds for engagement rings etc. are from Israel. I most enjoy creating something special. RA: We have a good customer base. Someone buys from the family and then the whole family comes. It goes from mouth to mouth. Right now there's a new trend of people bringing back a lot of their gold. They want to take advantage of high gold prices and now everyone also wants to sell their old jewelry, coins and diamonds. If it's an interesting item we try to sell it. But in most cases we melt down everything and then sell it to refiners. So we make our portion there, a little profit. 