Bridget was born in Doon, East Limerick, Ireland.  Her father was a foreman for road work crews.  Her mother was very intelligent, although she didn’t have access to formal education.  Bridget received primary education in Ireland, but she was not able to afford secondary education and worked as a nanny.  In 1957, she immigrated to America, following her sister to the Bronx, where she worked as a telephone operator.  She met her husband, originally a neighbor in Ireland, in Gaelic Park.  They married and moved to an apartment in the Bronx, where their first child was born.  Soon after, the family moved to 52nd Street in Woodside.  On moving day, their second child was born at the door of St. Luke’s-Roosevelt Women’s Hospital.   Bridget’s husband died when their nine children were still young, but all children still live in the region. Bridget feels that she found a better life for herself and her children in America.  00:00:15 Life in Ireland wasn’t great.  Secondary education was expensive, so she was only able to go to primary school.  Grew up in Doon, East Limerick; studied English, Irish, math, singing, and traditional Irish dancing.  Was a good writer and performed in school plays.  Can speak Irish: “How are you” “I am well” in Irish. Remembers nun who didn’t speak Irish.  Children would roll bicycle tire with a stick for fun.  00:03:16 She was the oldest child with one sister in the US and another in Ireland, two brothers in US.  Father was foreman for roadwork crews.  Both parents were from County Tipperary, across the border.  00:04:23 Sister was in America first and a visiting cousin from the US encouraged immigration.  At the time you had to be sponsored and find for a job.  Traveled alone on Pan Am plane in 1957, and was very afraid.  She lived with sister in apartment in Tenbroeck Avenue in the Bronx.    00:06:04 Worked as a nanny in Ireland, and worked as telephone operator in New York. Not much money was left over after paycheck.  She also worked as live-in service for private households, like many immigrant women, for $50 a week.    00:07:22 Danced at City Center for fun, 86th street, and there were some Irish pubs around.  After living in the US for a week, her sister met her husband at their first dance.  00:08:21 Bridget’s Husband was a next door neighbor in Ireland, but they didn’t meet romantically until they met again at Gaelic Park.  They were married at St. Thomas More on East 89th Street.  Moved to an apartment in the Bronx, but Bridget continued to work every day.      00:09:12* Father Ryan, later of St. Sebastian, told couple about six family house (railroad apartments) on 52nd Street in Woodside.  Moved in on the day second child was born.  Bridget went into labor while her husband was moving and needed a police escort to St. Luke’s-Roosevelt Women’s Hospital.  The baby was born inside the door (Danny).  00:10:44 Loved Woodside – shops, transportation, and the schools were close, and she met some people from Ireland, but not from her own region.  Bridget was involved in Girl Scouts.  In 1997, she went to LaGuardia to study Spanish, but doesn’t remember much Spanish.  She taught religion for five years on Saturdays to public school students at St. Sebastian.  The couple had 9 children born in 10 years – 6 boys and 3 girls.  All still live in the region - Jackson Heights, Montauk, Woodside, New Jersey, Massapequa, Huntington , Brooklyn, Floral Park, and Oyster Bay.  They have 18 grandchildren.  Woodside was a good neighborhood for kids, didn’t have to lock the doors.  Husband died during that time.      00:14:26 Husband was president of an Irish American association.  Marched in St. Patrick’s Day parade, describes children lined up to march in parade and lost two children who climbed tree for better view.  00:16:14 Remembers that children were always getting hurt and had to go to the hospital, but was grateful that the children weren’t sick.   Moved from 57th Street to a house on 59th Street.    00:17:48 Visited Ireland often, but not for 12 years since father’s funeral.  Father was born and died on February 29th at age 92.  Father was involved in greyhound racing and was made President Emeritus of the Coursing Club.  Family spoke English at home.  Parents visited a few times.  During a summer visit, father said “this is the first time I’ve warmed up since I was born.”  Mother, born 1911, could sing, dance, play accordion, knit, sew, and tend to births and deaths.  Was very intelligent, but only attended hedge school [small informal illegal schools in Ireland for Catholic children].  00:20:56 Went back to Ireland for Christmas 1958 and stayed for six weeks.  She sometimes traveled to Ireland for weekends.  Saw America as better life, but missed friends in Ireland and performing in plays.  Involved in camogie, (Irish hurling for women), but parents didn’t approve because it was dangerous, and she stopped after an injury.  00:23:04 Bridget didn’t have many friends until marriage, but then formed friendships with other mothers.  Husband was more involved in social activities, but they attended dinner dances together.   00:24:19 Husband died of heart attack at age 41, found support in community and family.  It was easier to take care of children between 2 and 13 than teenagers.  Children were mostly good, but not always.  00:26:18 Wants grandchildren to know that she came here for a better life.  School was expensive in Ireland and jobs were scarce, but things are better now.  Attended LaGuardia over a summer to complete secondary education and passed exam.  00:27:24 Best part of living in America is everything.  Met husband here, wouldn’t live anywhere else.    00:27:53* Explains and sings “There’s a Fair Tomorrow” or “Beidh Aonach Amárach”.  Daughter would write notes asking permission, with a big checkbox for yes and a small checkbox for no.   