Joseph Caputi emigrated from Italy to the United States in 1963. His family settled in Bushwick and later moved to East New York. Joseph eventually settled in Ozone Park where he married and settled down.  (00:33)  Joseph remembers life being very simple in Italy. He recalls his family not having much. He does recall having fun as a child. He remembers having a bike that he shared with his siblings.  (01:57)  Joseph's father had already immigrated to the United States, while he and the rest of his family waited for their paperwork to follow. He recalls having to go through physical exams in Naples, and he was held back from immigrating right away because he needed to have his tonsils removed. This delayed them another six months. Joseph along with his mothers and siblings finally immigrated to the United States in October of 1963, and he remembers how strange Halloween in the United States was.  (04:38)  Joseph immigrated to America with his mother and siblings. Young Joseph’s conceptions of America were based around pop culture icons such as cowboys and Indians. He came on an ocean liner called the Saturno. He remembers being extremely seasick the entire journey. He remembers experiencing culture shocked arriving in New York and seeing such a heterogeneous population. Joseph was greeted in the harbor by his uncle and father whom he had not seen for seven years.    (08:13)  Joseph first settled in Bushwick, Brooklyn on Bleecker Street. He remembers how different all of the people were. He remembers the tough neighborhood, and the gang violence.  His family then settled in East New York.  (09:57)  He remembers the food being extremely strange when he arrived.  He recounts the story of desperately wanting to try canned macaroni; however, he remembers liking everything because everything was just so different and enjoyable to experience for the first time.  (11:34)  Joseph remembers being picked on for not knowing English while in school. He eventually picked up English, but it took him some time because it was not spoken at home. He learned through watching television and being with friends.  (12:49)  Joseph felt like his parents were okay with him becoming American, but he felt they did not really care to assimilate themselves. He remembers embracing United States’ tradition of cultural and ethnic diversity.  (14:52)  Joseph remembers experiencing the aftermath of President Kennedy’s assassination. He calls that for the first time he felt like he was part of America.  He recalls experiencing the 1964 New York World's Fair, and remembers it every time he passes the Unisphere in Flushing Meadows Park.  (16:46)  Joseph recalls playing stickball as a child and details a story of getting hit with the bat by accident. He remembers enjoying American sports and playing them in school. After finishing school, he was called by the New York City police department and working on the Son of Sam case.   (18:57)  Joseph moved to Ridgewood Queens, followed by Ozone Park where he was married, and then moved to Fresh Meadows.   (19:47)  Joseph believes that being an immigrant made him a better person and opened up opportunities in his life. He feels that Queens has changed a lot since he was younger. He remembers frequenting Flushing, Main Street and attending the RKO Theater.  