My name is Marcy Dermansky, I’m a writer, and we’re at the Athens café on 30th Avenue.   I don’t plan my novels all that much or work with an outline.  I just work really hard for a long period of time and write what comes into my head.  I used to have a daily writing schedule and a writing office and a plan.  Since I now have a seventeen month-old daughter I don’t have a process right now.   But I’m hoping to get one.  If I have a lot of energy at night when she’s asleep I might write at night, but I don’t do anything on a regular basis any more.  So far I feel like I haven’t done anything all that wrong [representing a two year old accurately before having a child of her own, in the novel Bad Marie].  I think if I were writing it now I might not feel as much sympathy towards the Marie character, because she does something so bad [run away with the child she’s looking after].   People make jokes about my babysitters running off with Nina – and well, [you don’t find them so funny?] No…So I think maybe it would have been harder to write her if I had had a child of my own.   My friends with little babies read that book and it makes them uncomfortable.  Getting published is definitely one aspect of success.  I think that it’s when you get to the end of a novel, when you read anybody’s book not just mine, and if the end works for you, if you read it and you think “that’s right”.  Sometimes I like to make people cry with my work.  That’s always the best thing you can do.    There’s an anthology that’s coming out called Forgotten Borough – Writers Come to Terms with Queens [pub. by SUNY Press].  And that’s the first time I’ve written about Queens.  I set the short story in a place called Café Bar on 34th Avenue, which is a place that I love.  So when I had to write about Queens that’s what I chose.  But I think with fiction a lot of times you write about a place after you’ve left it.  So I’ll probably write more about Queens when I live somewhere else.    I’ve lived in Astoria for ten years.  I certainly didn’t know I’d be here for this long.  I came to New York and people said “move to Queens”, it’s happening and its cheap.  And we like it so we’ve stayed and we’ve moved a couple of times around here.    I was brought up in Inglewood New Jersey.  But I lived in San Francisco, and then I lived in New Orleans, and then came home.  I actually lived in Dominican Republic for a bit too.  My husband had a job translating for a funny company, a little start-up translating company.  So I just wrote.  I had a year of not working, and worked on a book when I was there and went swimming. My husband’s German so we go there a little bit.   Alongside my own writing work I edit people’s manuscripts – so short stories and novels – and I love doing that kind of work.  I can do it at home and in my own time, and it’s perfect for when you have a baby.  I’ve been doing that for a couple of years now.  I also write film reviews for a website.  So it’s busy, especially with Nina.  Sometimes I think it would be so much easier if I had a job, and could go.  Working from home and having a baby means not working.  So I’m playing around with that.  The first idea is always the hardest thing for me.  What I like about writing novels is that they’re long.  Once you have the idea, you can just write for a couple of hundred pages. Every day when you start working you have this book and you keep writing it.  With short stories you finish them so quickly and then you need to have the next idea.  The hardest time for me as a writer is when you finish a novel.  Because to start a new novel is very daunting for me.  The ideas just come.  I don’t believe in inspiration: I don’t have a gazillion ideas.  I have to just force myself to sit in front of my computer and force myself to work, and then an idea will come.  But I don’t normally start with an idea raring to go.  I just have to force it.    Astoria is very community oriented.  And I’ve particularly liked it since having a baby.  I’ve almost liked Queens and Astoria more since having Nina than before, which you wouldn’t necessarily expect.  Suddenly I know my neighbors a lot more, I keep meeting mothers with strollers.  People are so warm and helpful.  The restaurants are good, the people are interesting.  And the rents are really good.  I think that’s a good reason isn’t it?  I mean, we live on the top floor of a house – that’s nice.  I love it when my characters just do something.  Like in Bad Marie, Marie goes to Paris.  I didn’t know she was going to do that until she went there.  My characters start making decisions without my planning it, because I don’t plan.  And that’s really fun, because they become these creatures in my head that just do things.  My stories entertain themselves while I write them.  Sometimes I get upset when I write them if bad things happen but I just go through it.  It’s fun.  I like what they say.   