(00:43) Frank discusses his experiences as a child in Calabria, Italy; coming from extreme poverty, he found life was difficult. He explains daily life in Southern Italy, and how poverty motivated his family’s decision to immigrate to the United States.  (04:33) Frank’s family decided to move because they already had family in the United States. In 1952, Frank’s family began the immigration process. Ten years later, his father was approved for a visa. His sister then followed. Frank and his brother and mother finally immigrated in 1965.  (06:35) Frank discusses how he felt about this transition in his life. He was fearful, but excited about this move. He recounts some of the funny and strange anecdotes that people told about life in the United States which made him nervous about the move.  (08:30) Frank recalls bringing a garden hoe with him in his luggage. He brought the gardening tool over for purely personal and sentimental reasons.   (09:39) Frank traveled to the United States by airplane on TWA airlines. The plane made multiple stops making the journey feel endless. The food was unappealing, but luckily his mother had made sandwiches.  (11:05) Frank discusses the first few days after arrival in College Point, New York.  There were no issues, as his father had already made accommodations for his family. He remembers thinking the homes looked strange, and he was shocked by the number of cars in the street. People left their doors unlocked and milk money on the stoop. He recalls how he was shocked by this practice, as in Italy they always locked up. He found American people to be very welcoming.  (14:04) Frank remembers some of the cultural differences he experienced between Italy and the United States, such as teenagers having freedom to hang out on the streets.  (15:13) He believes that he adopted the American way of life rather quickly. He learned English within a few months, and remembers playing stickball with children in the street. He enjoyed the amenities that Americans enjoyed, such as televisions, refrigerators, abundance of food, etc. Christmas in the United States was particularly different to him.  (17:11) Frank discusses the assimilation process for him and his family members. His parents were very supportive of assimilation and learning the language despite their unwillingness to learn English. His parents never regretted their decisions to immigrate.  (18:47) There were not many Italian immigrants in College Point when Frank arrived. However College Point’s small Italian community helped Frank’s family with donating clothing and finding employment. Frank’s aunt who lived in the Bronx was also very helpful. He recalls a story of having a guest in their home and how they quickly needed to adapt to American customs so as not to appear rude. Frank’s family was always willing to do things the American way.  (21:36) Frank's father worked as a cook here in the United States, while his mother worked at a breadstick factory in College Point.  (22:16) Frank discusses his experiences in American schools in comparison to Italian schools. Some of the most notable differences were the length of the day, the condition of the buildings, and the classroom sizes. He attended P.S. 27, and recalls Mrs. Zampetta and Mrs. Taylor who were particularly helpful with him learning English. It took him a full year to be fully fluent in English. He lost his accent within two years.  (26:18) Frank's mother was extremely supportive of him getting an education. She knew that was the best way for him to succeed as an adult in the country.  Frank remembers that he didn't have a difficult time assimilating. He imagines that it was a much different experience for his parents. Stickball was a gateway for Frank to be accepted with American children.  (29:32) Frank remembers attending the 1964 New York World's Fair in Flushing Meadow Corona Park. The fair’s sights and sounds were a surreal experience for him, as he had never seen anything like it in Italy.  (31:04) Frank remembers his dislike for American food, particularly hot dogs. Italian food was abundant in Queens so he did not remember missing anything in particular. However, the diversity of food that he found in Queens was strange to him. He remembers disliking Chinese food, but grew to love it later in life. He felt American food was too heavy, and he was not fond of Italian American cuisine.  (33:20) Frank believes that he has kept many of his Italian traditions, but thinks he has accepted American traditions. However, he felt many traditions were lost, as he was not near many Italians. Frank recalls always feeling like a foreigner in the United States until first visit back to Italy. It was then that he realized he truly had become American.  (35:50) Frank became an American citizen as soon as he came of age in 1975. There was a yearlong wait. His true motivation for becoming an American citizen was his desire to vote and to fully become American.   (37:42) Frank believe that being an immigrant has affected the person he is today. He feels like he is a bridge between two cultures. He believes that had he stayed in Italy he would be a different person today. He is thankful to his parents for making the decision to move to the United States because it provided him with the opportunity to go to college, attain a job, and learn to speak four languages.  