Patrick Kearney is the President of the Mineola Irish-American Center. He was born and raised in Ireland. Throughout the interview, Patrick talks about the experiences of his grandparents and his parents. He also discusses his life at home and his school life in Ireland. 
00:00:25 Patrick Kearney was born in Ireland. His father was born in 1916. You can look up the Irish census, in there Patrick found about his grandparents. His grandmother immigrated to America, worked for a family, moved to Argentina and got married. She had a baby who died and her husband died tragically as well so she moved back to Ireland and married Patrick’s grandfather. Their first son was born in 1909.   
00:01:25 Growing up in Ireland you didn’t ask too many questions so he never knew the entire story. He pieced it together much later. When there was talk going on, you were sent out to play. 
00:01:50 When Patrick’s father was born, there was a family with the same name that lived a couple hundred yards away. He was helpful to them so when they got too old to take care of themselves, he lived with them. He took their house when they passed away. It was a three-bedroom detached house. There was a garden where the vegetables were grown. A few acres across a field which belonged to that house also became his fathers.
*Break at 00:02:37*  
00:02:38 Some of the fields were bad so you couldn’t do much with them but there was room for crops and potatoes. Bigger farmers needed help in the spring and the fall, his father was a laborer who would go help and in return they would get one drill of potatoes. They had two cows which they would leave on their field for grass. Any money raised would be used to buy clothes and shoes. 
00:03:49 They also raised a couple of pigs, which were sold off. You would buy groceries and if you had the money you pay for it. If you didn’t, they put it in the book and when you came in to sell the pigs, you brought the money in and paid them off. 
00:04:40 Sex in Ireland was not discussed. Patrick’s mom got pregnant at 16. When Patrick was 51, he asked where Willy came from, to which she responded that’s your step-brother. His father knew that his mother had a baby before they were married. Patrick’s mother was lucky; her step-mother took in Willy and raised him as her own. Patrick kind of knew Willy wasn’t her brother but didn’t know she was his mother.
00:05:50 If a girl got pregnant before marriage in Ireland she was kicked out of the house before her father came home. If the father found out, he wouldn’t be responsible for what he would do to her.  
00:06:13 Patrick was born in 1942 and was ten days old when his mother had to weed the drill of potatoes. Men tended the animals and went to work while the women did housework and tended the crops on field or garden. It didn’t get dark until 11 o’clock so the men worked their own field after dinner. 
00:07:28 Patrick was 5 or 6 when he started going to school. You would go home, eat and then tend to whatever work needed to be done on the field. Playtime was limited to when there was nothing else to do. You made up games like hide and seek. There was very little toys. You got one present for Christmas and your birthday was just another day.
*Break at 00:08:19*
00:08:20 The school had two rooms with a fireplace in each. If you were lucky, you brought lunch with you. Patrick’s was usually a bottle of milk or soda. For lunch you got two slices of bread, butter and sugar. A fellow classmate would get no lunch so Patrick would give him a piece of his. 
00:09:40 To reach school you walked across the fields because if you took the road, it was twice or three times the length. The school was on Ballymun Road in Dublin. It started at 9 and ended at 3, consisting of reading, writing, and arithmetic. If you made a mistake, the stick came out and you got three slaps on each hand. There was no limit on how many times you can be punished in one day. 
00:10:38 Patrick had a problem with his “L” and “S.” He would erase so much that there was a hole in the paper. As his punishment he had to walk to the second room that consisted of the 5th 6th and 7th graders who at the time were Patrick’s heroes that taught him to play football. He had to walk to each desk with his finger through the hole. At the age of 72, he still remembers that incident when he sees the word “Wall.” 
00:11:55 Ms. Donavan was his favorite teacher. He was on 7 or 8 at the time but he knew a good looking woman when he saw one and that hasn’t changed. She had a very abusive husband and she got friendly with Patrick’s family. She wasn’t the nicest but she taught the kids well. 
00:13:00 Patrick took the NYC Fireman’s test in 1968. His education in Ireland ended at age thirteen and a half. The people around him during the exam had high school jackets on and he was wondering what he was doing there. 13,000 people took that test and 1,168 passed the exam. Even with the little education he had, he was still one of them.  
00:13:40 Patrick regrets not appreciating how good his education was and building on that foundation because he could’ve gone a long way. But even then he isn’t disappointed on where he ended up. 
00:14:00 In Ireland you lived hand to mouth but they didn’t feel bad because some people were worse off. His mother would bake brown bread and Soda bread, which in Ireland was just white bread. There were no raisins in it that was corn cake which was made on Sundays or special days. Fruit cake was made for Christmas. The corn cake was actually called a “spotted dog” cake because when you cut it open, you saw four or five raisins.    
00:15:30 Stew made of beef, potatoes and parsnips. Dinner time was one o’clock. It wasn’t a hard life but in comparison to here it was.  

