Chun-He Kim is the youngest child born from a family of nine based in Daegu, South Korea. She has worked with in various positions at the Queens Library which she joined in 1987. She immigrated to Queens from South Korea with her husband and two daughters during the early 1980’s. In this interview Chun-Hee crafts a personal definition of what it means to live as immigrant with anecdotes about work, everyday life, and sorrow which take place throughout New York. Chun-Hee later discusses the differences in American and traditional Korea culture and how she has seen the library grow as a hub for recent Korean arrivals to New York City and other New York based immigrant populations. 00:00:43 Chun-hee talks about growing up in a large family with many siblings in Daegu, South Korea; she recalls having a pleasant childhood, graduating from college, and for four years taught English in a rural province in South Korea. She met her husband while she was teaching in school in 1978.  00:02:07 Her husband had aspirations of teaching music in the United States. Her oldest brother also invited them to stay and visit the United States. She and her husband applied for a petition to stay in the United States which took five years. In 1984 Chun-Hee visited New York for the first time, staying with her oldest brother who is a practicing physician in the United States. 00:03:13 Her husband joined her in New York City two months later. Her two young daughters lived temporarily with their grandparents in South Korea.  00:04:01 In the meantime, Chun-hee managed to afford an apartment in Queens and worked as a busy women’s boutique store in Midtown, Manhattan. She describes her employment as physical taxing with little time to rest.  00:05:00 Chun-hee’s husband found temporary work as a traveling piano tuner. Her husband worked many other arduous jobs, many of which afforded him one day of rest. Later her daughters came to stay in New York in 1985. She took this opportunity to attend government funded business school where she learned computer skills. 00:06:30 Chun-hee was introduced to the Queens Library during a class field trip. She was encouraged to take a clerical position at the library in 1987. Her husband worked other jobs, saved enough money, and opened up a candy store which he by himself in the Far Rockaways.  00:08:00 She recalls her husband’s long commute to the Far Rockaways and there always being problems at the corner store including vandalism, petty theft, and break-ins.  00:09:56 Her husband’s corner store was flagged and fined for not updating their license to have a pinball machine. Her husband did not renew the license because he had a similar name with the former store tenant.  00:10:16 She went in his stead to court in downtown Brooklyn and found out they owed a massive fine. A benevolent bureaucrat allowed her to pay much less of the fine that originally required. She’s remember this man’s generosity ever since.  00:13:48 Chun-hee heard from other Koreans that life in New York and America was dominated by hard physical work. She was mentally prepared to work hard. 00:15:24 Chun-hee recalls another impressive moment as an early immigrant to New York. She had accidentally placed her weekly salary in an envelope in the mailbox. She placed it in the mailbox at instead of mailing out a letter written for her daughter. She got her money back by waiting in the post-office until the mail truck man opened the boxes and collected mails and came back to post office 00:21:09 Her husband’s piano tuning job took him across the five boroughs and he would come home late. She moved within the Jackson Heights neighborhood.  00:21:56 She and her husband first rented a one bedroom apartment in Jackson Heights and later moved to a two bedroom apartment nearby. 00:22:58 She passed by the Jackson Heights Library every day on her way to work. She started to frequent the library because the family budget did not allow them to purchase books. She regrets not having found out the collection sooner.  00:24:38 She remembers an incident where her daughter called the Jackson Heights library “her friend’s library”. After hearing that Chun-hee was determined to also make it “her daughter’s library” too. 00:26:09 Chun-Hee’s husband planned on enrolling in music school in America. Unfortunately, this dream never materialized. 00:27:05 Chun-hee discusses how her daughters excelled in the American educational system because it was open and fostered creative and independent thinking. Her older daughter becomes heavily involved in performing arts. Her daughter was later chosen by a performing arts group led by NYC Ballet principal danseur Jacque D’Amboise in 1989.  00:3131 Chun-hee recalls attending her daughter’s show at Madison Square Garden where a very heterogeneous student body collaborated with professional singers, dancers, and choreographers. She remembers their performance was based on the 200th commemoration of the French Revolution. The students in Chun-hee’s daughter’s school performed a choreography dressed as French fries.  00:35:00 Chun-Hee was immensely moved by the depth and inclusive message of the performance. She recalls it as one of her defining New York City moments. Her daughter used this experience and later joined the Manhattan based youth theater group TADA starting from the 6th grade and until high school. People admonished Chun-hee for sending her daughter to Manhattan by herself but Chun-hee knew she was doing the right thing.   00:37:41 She states that New York City offers more than educational and financial opportunities to immigrants. People who live in New York City have access to great cultural institutions.   00:38:00 Her two daughters are now married with children and Chun Hee has four granddaughters. Last year the entire family went to Seoul together on a family trip.  00:39:22 She started working at the Queens Library when there was only one other Korean librarian working in the library system. This lady was the Mitchell Linden branch manager who immigrated to the United States in the 1950’s. She assigned Chun-hee the task of ordering new Korean language books for the Korea speaking population in Queens.  00:40:20 Chun-hee became involved in the Queens Library’s New American Programs and was invited to coordinate programming created for Korean library patrons. She became very close with the Queens Korea community communicating with families about their library needs. In the pre-internet era, Chun-hee visited the two largest Korea bookstores in Flushing and Manhattan and placed book orders. 00:42:00 Some of her other duties entailed weeding the collection, doing research, and doing outreach with Korean speaking patrons.  [*Korean dialogue of what Korean library patrons would say to Chun-hee during their visits to the Queens Library.] 00:43:42 In 1990, Chun-Hee selected the name for the growing Queens Library Korean collection. She decided to call it “Han Nara”, which means in Korean “One Country”. The name is a direct mention to the desired unification of the two Koreas. She was inspired to call it this because of the recent unification between the Germanys. She became close with many Korea library patrons and learned their personal book tastes. She found this sort of work very rewarding. 00:46:51 She also participated in scouting performers in the local communities for Korean story telling events that were hosted by the library’s New American Program. She selected her most animated patrons and knew who had a knack for storytelling to participate in these story telling events. *Korean dialogues of what one memorable Korean library patron would tell her. 00:51:04 Chun-hee’s oldest daughter Yoo-ree also participated in these folk story telling events. These story telling events were a success and one time close to a hundred people showed up. Korean patrons and event attendees wanted to become involved in the production of these events and volunteered their time and effort. 00:52:21 In 1997, Chun-hee suffered from a herniated disc which was caused from physical activity working as an office aide in Jackson Heights. She stayed home for eight months and lost control of many of the Korean New American Programs events.   00:55:23 She feels that her duties in the Queens Library aiding Korean patrons were a mark of personal success in New York City.  00:56:25 Chun-hee used the library’s resources to educate herself on a variety of American history issues such as women’s suffrage, abolitionism, the Civil Right Movements, and the genocide of the American Indians. She would read books that patrons would return and get interested in these topics.  00:58:16 She was very impressed by the political message of the Broadway musical “Cabaret”. She took from it “that evil becomes from everyday people choosing not to speak up and do the right thing”. She feels that the level of civic education in American is very good compared to that of South Korea.  She attributes this to the American tradition of strong libraries.  01:00:36 Chun-hee has strong emotions against celebrating Christopher Columbus Day because of the genocide of the American Indians. She also feels strongly in favor about the diversity in New York City and feels that strong library collections are useful for teaching the truth.  01:02:15 Chun-hee recalls a story about her first teaching job at girls high school in South Korea that was sponsored by a very wealthy benefactor. The school had a very nice and large library but the administrator did not want to spend funds on acquiring a library staff.  01:03:54 Chun-hee encouraged one of her students to speak with the school vice-principal about making the library more accessible. The vice-principal became infuriated with this student’s protests.  01:06:00 She recalls an Ivy League admission officer’s anecdote about selecting a student that spoke up to keep an unpopular position. Chun-hee wants to be brave like this student who spoke up against a majority.  01:09:49 When Chun-hee’s father passed away in 1993, she planned to take her daughters to South Korea for the funeral rites. Her daughter protested the long trip by claiming they had an important exam. She responded by saying that you will take many more tests in your life and that these once in a lifetime matters are more essential.      Interview Part 2  November 8th 2016 [Interview in Korean] 00:00:54 Chun-hee gives some personal thoughts about immigrants and the process of their assimilation to American culture. She also gives thoughts on the obstacles that immigrants face in the United States. She tells an anecdote where an Asian boutique owner was yelled at by a Caucasian customer “Go Back to Your Country”. 00:02:01 This happened after a customer repeatedly purchased clothes and returned after wearing them one time. The boutique owner lashed back at the angry customer “You white Europeans killed all the Native Americans”. 00:03:31 This highly charged incident sparked Chun-hee’s desire to learn more about the Native Americans. She borrowed library books and did her own research. 00:04:13 When she encounters other Koreans in New York they ask her the question “Where do you live in New York? Are there many black people living there?” This casual racism prompted her to do her own research on African American history. 00:05:09 She talks about what she learned including her thought about the historical Middle Passage. She lauds the African American led Civil Right Movement for catalyzing change in American immigration law.  00:07:13 She talks about how her research about African American history. She disagrees that it was President Lincoln that freed the slaves. She talks about their emancipation being a synthesis of Abolitionists, Quakers, and the Underground Railroad.  00:08:50 She says that if she was alive in that era she would have assisted and hid runaway slaves. She goes onto discuss the courage of women abolitionists including Harriet Tubman and Sojourner Truth.  00:10:10 She has found that the public library is a good source of contemporary literature that discusses social justice and fosters meaningful debate. 00:11:08 She recalls seeing recent immigrant much like herself wait in line for long hours to get free English lessons at the Flushing Library. She recalls being moved by their dedication. Seeing their efforts she led an ESL class of her own in the downstairs area of the Flushing Library. 00:12:34 Her class was staffed by recent immigrants from all over the world including recent arrivals from Saudi Arabia, South Africa, and China. She held her special class there every Wednesday and worked at the library on the weekends. She became close with her student as they bonded with each and together in the classroom.  00:14:19 She’d use contemporary issues such as the Soviet Union’s invasion of Afghanistan and apartheid in South Africa to reach her adult students and encourage them to be more vocal. 00:17:10 She recalls how the experience teaching experienced adults was different from teaching student in primary school. Her lessons were more life skill oriented and dealt with issues on how to navigate the American social structures.  00:19:09 She feels that her lessons helped her adult student learn how to small talk which she finds a basic in American culture.  00:20:22 Chun-hee talks about where and how Americans especially immigrants can learn civic culture and practice democracy. She remembers going to her daughter’s schools and seeing student talk freely and debate openly with their teachers and even principals. She found this relationship different from the very hierarchical student – teacher relationship in South Korea. 00:21:23 Chun-hee recalls a similar kind of openness being expressed during her daughter’s after school theater programs. She remembers seeing young student talk openly with elected officials.  00:22:27 Another anecdote involving democracy involved a younger colleague at the Jackson Heights Library. This colleague of Chun-hee was openly against an imbedded culture of accepting public smoking. She was the only vocal opponent supporting a ban on public smoking. Chun-hee says she was inspired by this to protect her personal rights and others rights as well. 00:25:31 She feels that American work culture has a place for those who speak up including voices of dissent. This has encouraged her to speak up and stand firm for what she believes is right. 00:26:40 She recalls a long standing legal dispute with the Library’s legal team involving a worker’s compensation related dispute. Instead of accepting a settlement, she remained firm until she won her fully owed worker’s compensation. She felt vindicated because of the union’s work in protecting her rights as an employee. 00:30:56 She felt that it would not be just to give up her rights to be fully compensated. Although she did not fight for these rights and labor laws, she feels that it would be amiss to give up so easily.    