My name is Halim.  I am the owner of Harissa.  I started it nine months ago.  My previous job was as a waiter. Actually as a bus boy.  Periyali, a Greek Restaurant.  Then I worked with the same owner for 10 years as a waiter at Il Cantinori.  10th Street between Broadway and University Place [Manhattan].  When you work for the same time in a long place you think you want to do something else.    Then I went into a partnership with someone in the city but that didn’t work so I decided to just give up the restaurant business. So I started driving a limo, from 2001 May all the way up to, well for seven years driving.  I was driving almost the same people who I used to wait on.  People who can afford to eat at places like Il Cantinori.  I enjoyed the free time.  I was like outside, I’d stop, there’s no stress because I have only a few customers and I knew the timing.  So you pick them up and drop them, sometimes you spend the whole day with them.   We always had something to talk about and I learned a lot from them.  But at the same time every time I would drive them back to the restaurant to eat I would think “I can do this.”   But in between I was about to open a place with a friend that I had but I lost almost everything.  I was with an artist.  And you know how artists are very eccentric.  It takes three years to tell all this story.  Then when you lose everything it’s a shock.  But I said to myself I’m not going to lose all this.   Then I spent a while driving cabs.  And it was more interesting because you meet the real New York, like the inside.  So you talk and you forget.   I had spent almost 8 months working on it – it was in an apartment on Vernon Boulevard. Now everybody has opened next to that place.  At the time I was going to open it there was no-one there.  Everyone had the idea of renting an apartment and making it into a store.   The guy with me was in antiques and there was an idea that you would be able to buy the furniture you’re sitting on.  I blame him for everything else.  He had an amazing idea but the worst to deal with.  Before we started a business I was the guy who could talk on a phone, get the contracts etc.  I lost money he lost a man, so….  Then this one came up so I said why not.  I was always looking for a place where you could sit and enjoy the coffee, like a Mediterranean menu where you can have from vegetarian to meat etc.   It’s inspired by Il Cantinori, because they were serving quality food.  No matter what you do it’s all about being consistent in the food.  I remember there was a guy there who said 15 years ago I had this pasta and it still tastes the same.  Also the quality.  You see the boxes with the fish, the tomatoes.  That’s what makes it a success.    Then I find that when you walk in a place it’s the whole atmosphere that counts.  When we were building this place, renovating, we got some lunch – I bought a small can of Harissa.  We were sitting on the floor, like in August last year.  And we were thinking what shall we call the place. And I looked at the can and thought why not Harissa.  In France now people they have it for breakfast.  The North Africans they know it, the Europeans they know it…and the Americans, they are starting to know it.   Driving, well I used to drive this couple, both actors – I learned a lot from them.  Actually I was not so much their driver, more like a friend to them.  And they’d invite me into the places they went.  I liked that connection, it reminded me that it doesn’t matter who you are.  Here is different.  I enjoy it more.  This is like you have a baby…you want to see your baby grow…and this is the same for me.    Sometimes I spend 18 hours working.  But still I go home and I sleep and then I’m up at 7.30.  I used to open at 10.  The kitchen closes at 11 but I’m here till like 12.30.  It’s different, working for people, you want to go home.  But for me this is home. About 4 percent of my customers are North African, the rest are just all the people who you see outside here.    The owner at Il Cantinori he used to go to a table and just talk and talk and I was standing behind him saying I need to take the order…and now I see myself doing the same thing.  When people go someplace to eat they want to take a break.  And often they want to talk.  Especially in New York…everything is individual things, they all do things by themselves.  Now even at the supermarket you don’t have to talk to somebody you can cash up by yourself.  You almost don’t talk to nobody.  The good experience from back home that I’m seeing here at bit now is the flea market.  You talk to people then when you’re buying something.  It’s all about the experience too.  You feel who wants to talk and who doesn’t.  You have a sense oh this person is tired; this one is working on the computer.  But I can tell when they want to take a break. You ask them if they want to have a glass of water etc…  A customer came in yesterday and she said “in this place you have soul.”  30th Ave – it went down for a period and then went up again.   I’ve seen 30th Avenue since 1989 – when I first came to NYC I was 24, in 1989.  I knew one person who helped me, who lived in Corona.  First time I went out I found a job as a bus boy.  And it was a bit far to travel (I arrived here in October and it was very cold).  So I moved a little bit closer.  Myself and my friend we found a studio, here on 26th Street, then a one bed.  I love it here.  You don’t feel like an immigrant. Because everybody is. You don’t have anybody saying anything like “go back to your country”.  It’s just home.    When I came here 30th Avenue was very good, just like now, well, more with diners etc.  After two years, in 1991, 92, 93 it started going a bit down. The crowd was different.  Then Broadway started coming up, like how it is now.  And then Grand café took over in their building which used to be a bank.  Now you see a lot of the young, arty Manhattan people coming in.   I have people who come here who say that it’s like East Village or Williamsburg, because it’s small and cozy.  In the beginning it happened very quickly.  I used to go 18 miles between the espresso machine and the coffee.  It’s more a coffee shop, and the food is extra.  My brother used to do that.  We had a store.  We had two windows and he’d switch the items from one window to another, to give people the idea of something changing, something new.  It was a family store from my grandfather, to my father, to my brother.  This is how I started, as a kid, you know by the register, picking up the coins and putting them back.  It sells kitchenware.  There was one time when my cousin and I we didn’t go with the family to our place in the country side for the summer.  We stayed in Algiers.  I had the keys for the store.  So we decided to open the store when we were like 16 and 17, and work like normal.  They had gone for a month.  When they came back the store was almost empty because we didn’t know how to buy products.  We knew how to sell.  My father came back and he looked at the store and thought “what happened!” but he was also kind of happy.   That’s also why I didn’t have a hard time working with people here in New York City.  I had tougher experience.  People who bargain with you, drive the prices down.  That is how you learn.  