Thara Madathordy is an Indian immigrant who moved to the US in 2003 after she got married. She talks about her education and upbringing in India, as well as the beauty of Jackson Heights, where she has lived since moving to New York. Thara also discusses the challenges she has faced in following the American education system when raising her daughters and the emotional difficulties she dealt with when she first moved here. Things changed when she was able to start working and she compares teaching in New York to teaching in India. 00:00:19: Thara talks about where she grew up in India and her education there. She discusses her family’s educated background.  00:02:06: She works as a part time teacher so she can take care of her kids. Thara discusses the differences in teaching older students in India and young kids in Jackson Heights.  00:05:10: Thara is passionate about teaching children because they are the new generation. She talks about the way elders trained her and other kids in India, in academics and morals. Because of her own upbringing, she tries to shape the values and morals of the kids she teaches, but notes that in America, everyone has different cultures and religions.  00:08:20: She talks about the challenges she had raising her first daughter due to the more hands-on learning in the US, and how that has helped her with her second daughter.  00:12:00: Thara thinks that the way her daughter is taught is sometimes unnecessarily complicated. She tries to teach her own techniques to her daughter to help her understand better.  00:13:30: Having a thorough understanding of English is important for the parents in order to teach their kids.  00:16:23: When she came to the U.S., she had a hard time. She considers herself to be a passive mom, but has noticed that mothers nowadays are much more active in their children’s education. For example, they take English classes. Thara had already learned English in India, but was unfamiliar with the U.S. education system. 00:19:07: She taught her daughters Sanskrit and Hindi, as well as her own language Malayalam.  00:20:00: Thara moved to Jackson Heights in August of 2003 and she even bought a house in Jackson Heights because she loves it so much. She describes the historic look of the neighborhood and its diversity. She especially likes Roosevelt Avenue because it is a public transportation hub and close to both airports. She thinks people should maintain the neighborhood better because it has become dirty. 00:24:00: She talks about the changes she has seen in the ethnicities that populate Jackson Heights and how people travel there to experience the shopping. She enjoys being surrounded by many South Asians because it feels like home and feels much safer to her.  00:28:35: She also sees many religions and their houses of worship.  00:29:47: Thara tries to maintain connections to the temple, but she believes that there is only one religion of humanity. She sticks with Hinduism so that her children will experience the culture and not become confused. At the temple, there are many classes and opportunities for volunteering, which is what she wants her daughter to take away from it.  00:32:50: She doesn’t really celebrate holidays because it goes too deep into religion.  00:33:50: Thara never really had any ideas of what America was like. She learned about the World Trade Center in school in India, and that’s how she learned about New York. She never thought she would get married and move to the U.S. because she was happy with her middle class lifestyle in India.  00:36:10: When she got to the US, it was a bit of a culture shock. She only knew her husband, so she stayed home all day while he was at work. It was emotionally difficult for her to go from working all day in India to not being allowed to work in New York due to her visa. It took her six months to get used to the time difference between India and New York. Getting her library card was the first exciting thing to happen to her, even though it took a while to figure out how to get there.  00:40:18: Thara gets emotional talking about not being able to go back home (to live) after marriage and being lonely in New York. When she started working, things changed for her because she liked being active.  00:43:30: She is active in the school leadership team and volunteers in the hospital when she can. This makes Thara proud of herself because she is a self-made woman and feels that people want to listen to what she has to say now.  