Denny Meyer is a prominent civil rights activist. He was one of the first openly gay veterans in the country and has since become an advocate for LGBT issues in the military. 


00:00:00 	Introduction

0:00:35 	Tells his parents’ stories who were both Jewish Holocaust refugees who emigrated from Germany to New York, giving a very detailed description of his mother’s journey as an “illegal immigrant” and forging her documents. Mr. Meyer talks about the work she did when she arrived and how she met Denny’s father. 

0:08:38	Mr. Meyer talks about his father who was a lawyer in New York and as a lawyer for communists in Berlin.



0:09:51	Mr. Meyer’s parents moved to the north tip of Manhattan in the Inwood neighborhood bordering the Bronx. The Meyers settled in a German-Jewish refugee community. Denny talks about his family not being religious unlike other similar communities in New York. Many people in this community of German-Jewish refugees were Social Democrats in Germany.

0:10:42	The German-Jewish community celebrated the end of WWII by starting families, and that’s how Denny was born.  Beginning of baby boom. Talks about the neighborhood—from newspapers to shops—and talks about learning German first instead of English, which was later taught to the children in 1949. 

0:13:02	Denny explains the community of Holocaust refugees that he grew up in as very somber. Most in the community were in permanent mourning. “These people didn’t know how to laugh, they hardly knew how to cry.” He also says, “Laughter was something we children had to invent for ourselves because the adults didn’t know about it anymore.”

0:15:47	Mr. Meyer talks about the enormous burden placed on children to replace those killed in the concentration camps and become “doctors, lawyers…homosexuals and civil rights activists.” Then talks about meeting other children in New York who weren’t German and all the languages they spoke. 

0:18:08	The Meyer family moved to Long Island. Talks about “mundane” suburban culture. 

0:19:38 	Denny talks about realizing he was gay around fourteen and a half. He talks about visiting the “The Mattachine Society,” which was started as one of the earliest LGBT organizations in the United States. He goes on to talk about the political climate of the early 1960’s. Denny had some interesting collisions with future historic figures. At the Mattachine Society he first met Craig R. Rodwell, one of the leading gay rights activist of the time who had a relationship with Harvey Milk. He also met Wardell Pomeroy, who worked with Alfred Kinsey, and who provided him with counseling. 

0:25:45	Denny recalls his earliest memories about his first protest at age thirteen and being hit in the head with a rock. 

0:29:56	Denny talks about going to college and how he ended up joining the military following the anti-Vietnam war protests and watching people burn the American flag. 

0:32:12 	He discusses the torment and risks he faced serving as a gay man, or “serving in silence.” Talks about how some were murdered over it. 

0:34:42 	Talks about one time he thought they “the military” had discovered he was gay.

0:37:37 	Denny talks about how he could identify other gay members in the military but had to hide who he was for self-preservation.

0:41:20 	Mr. Meyer discusses how he was no longer being able to stay silent. After serving in the Navy, he moved to San Francisco, which was the most open and accepting place at the time for LGBT people.  It was also where he met the love of his life, which he would spend more than twenty years with. Denny goes onto talk about knowing Harvey Milk and other activists living in San Francisco and through LGBT history. 

45:39		Denny talks about the importance of Leonard Matlovich. Leonard was the first U.S. military service member to reveal his sexuality publically. He came out in an open letter to the Secretary of the Air Force and was on the cover of Time Magazine.

47:17 	He talks about the assassination of Harvey Milk and how Milk influenced him. He describes in great detail the violent protest that ensued after Milk’s assassination.

52:26 	Denny talks about the “monster disease” in his partner’s body and calls it the "holocaust of gay people.”

53:41 	On how gay people have served in our armed forces since the American Revolution

55:08 	His activism for LGBT people in the military began after his partner died of AIDS. He said he'd never go back to New York but he did. He realized a lot of gay people like himself were avoiding the VA to get treatment for fear of discrimination. That's when he started the local chapter of an organization representing LGBT veterans. 

0:59:45 	Talks about “Don't Ask Don't Tell” and working with Congress to get it repealed and working on a resolution. 

1:06:10 	Denny talks about how he established a website for gay servicemen in the military.

1:07:56 	Denny talks about his return to New York. He was depressed because he lost his partner. He was living in Brooklyn and then ended up in Queens. It was around 1992. 

1:12:07 	Mentions LGBT politicians in Queens like Danny Dromm. 

1:14:27 	Denny talks about Queens politician and New York State Senator Hiram Monserrate and how he wouldn't stand up for LGBT rights. 

1:19:28 	Denny gives a personal message to future generations and he talks about the current presidential administrations’ impact on LGBT rights in the military and the current state of affairs. And how he would like to pass the torch to future generations. 








