My name is Sami Mobarak, originally I’m from Alexandria, Egypt.  I’ve been in the neighborhood for 26 years.  I live just two blocks from here in 28th Avenue.  I had a pizzeria for almost 8 years.  Me and my wife enjoyed going around in the weekends to flea markets and stuff, and to buy antiques.  And we turned a hobby into a business.  Not too long ago, about a year ago.  It has turned out nice.  You do something that you like to do and at the same time you make some money, so that cannot be bad.  I have a friend who has a huge store, like 25,000 square.  And every now and then like on a monthly basis he sends me a truck.  And besides that I go to a few flea markets and yard sales.  Like in Bricktown New Jersey I was there yesterday and I buy things.  Trying to have a reasonable price where I keep the customer happy.  It’s just making a living, it’s not like a huge profit, just a living.   The revolution in Egypt: it was about time.  It should have happened a long time ago.  I think when the time comes the time comes.  I hope that the new revolution will bring some sort of stability in the country because it was like a boiling pot, with big time poverty.  I was visiting six months before the revolution and I saw people eating from the garbage and I saw people spending tons of money.  It was like there was no in-between.  The split in society between the filthy rich or dirty poor.  You cannot just keep going like this.  What happened was a wake-up call for everybody who lives there.    Myself as an Egyptian who lives outside Egypt I was pretty much emotionally involved and trying to find any way to support.   So we have a singer here and we got together and made a song for the revolution – we were the chorus team behind.   I remember when there was a 1 bedroom apartment here for 375 or 400 dollars and now we are talking about 1400 for a one bedroom studio.   Also the skin of Astoria has changed because it was dominated by Greek.  Now it’s become a melting pot – you see all kinds of different people who live all together. I think it’s one of the most safest and beautiful places in New York City that you can live.  Mostly in my mind I put my customers in different groups. Some they are really interested in antiques and they are willing to pay good money for it, but that is not so many people.  And mostly people are looking for cheaper stuff.  So I am focused on having a little bit to satisfy everybody’s taste in different products.  But mostly I work with silver which is a big thing and I sell a lot of ladies jewelry.   I see a lot of movement from Manhattan to Astoria, because only 10 to 15 minutes you are in the heart of the city but when you compare the rent in the city and the rent here, it’s still cheaper so you see most of those middle class working couples they move to the neighborhood.  And to accommodate this new neighborhood movement they open a lot of cafés which didn’t exist before, it was like small stores here and there.  Now there’s heavy investment, like some of those new cafes cost maybe a million or so.  And they are doing a great business, and attract more crowds, and I think that’s why the rents here have never gone down.  They still hold even though the real estate has been busted and the rent went down almost everywhere else.   Again, the 114 precinct is one of the best police stations, they are always present, always there.  Young ladies who get off work at 3, 4 o’clock in the morning and are walking home by themselves they feel safe and don’t have any problem.  And being here for a long time creates some kind of like a whole big family lives in the neighborhood, everybody looking after everybody.  If it’s late and I see some weird-looking person walking by or something I just make sure everything is ok. So I think everybody does his part.  And after all these years I think also that people start to trust each other.  Like you get Turkish a close friends with the Greeks, or an Egyptian has an Israeli as one of his best friends, and it becomes like you forget about what is the foreign policies and politics and all these big things and you just go down to a person, to human beings that need a living.  [Info. missing from recording.  Wife is from Algeria, two sons.  Twice he tried to move to New Jersey but both times came back.  Misses the neighborhood, and the fact it stays open 24 hours – there is always activity – other places felt dead in comparison]  The place I took over was already a pizza store and I thought might was well keep it as a pizza store, the old customers will keep coming.  It was good.  I worked there, I burned myself left and right with the oven, and yeah, getting older now I felt that I need something quieter.  When the oven is too hot and you’re sweating and tired.  So I guess my age – I’m 53 years old, I decided it’s time to calm down a little bit and have something more relaxing.    