In the second part of his interview with Queens Memory, Keith Perrin focuses on the development of FUBU, the clothing company he founded with three of his friends in the early 1990s. He describes how the founders built the brand by exhibiting at apparel trade shows and forging relationships with up and coming hip-hop artists. FUBU helped define the “urban clothing” market, and the company’s success led to marketing agreements with celebrities such as Muhammad Ali and Bill Cosby, and even a brief venture into music production. Keith notes that the Internet and social media have greatly changed the way marketing and promotion are done, and FUBU has had to change with the times. The company’s plans for the near future include the FUBU TV channel and FUBU Radio.  00:00:43 Getting a deal from Samsung propelled the FUBU founders to move into an office on the 48th floor of the Empire State Building. They had a small space to fit the four members, two partners and four employees. After a successful first season they moved their office to the 66th floor of the building. 00:02:13 The FUBU founders credit their success to exhibiting at Black Expos. The Black Expo was held in the Jacob Javits Center in New York, but was also hosted in Washington, D.C. and Atlanta. Attendees of the expo loved FUBU’s clothing and would look for them the following years. 00:03:08 Keith explains how anyone could sell at the Black Expo and the buyers could be anyone. But after FUBU’s move to the Empire State Building, they started attending a men’s apparel convention in Las Vegas called MAGIC. Everyone at this convention had a store and was buying for their stores. Many of them were interested in the FUBU line.  00:05:10 Keith started by doing sales for FUBU, which he did for about a year. As time went on he couldn't do both sales and traveling. He was traveling to promote the company’s products at events and places like the NBA All-Star Game, Cancun, and the Superbowl. He was able to do product placement on the road as well, and this became his main job at FUBU. 00:07:04 With the backing of Samsung, FUBU was able to provide samples for different people like celebrities. Smaller companies would have had difficulty doing that. People at the time loved seeing these four young businessmen making it. They loved seeing people who looked like them.  00:08:27 FUBU had many clothing contemporaries such as Mecca, Enyce, 1020 Blues, Cross Colours, and Russell Simmons' Phat Farm. The founders knew their biggest challenge was to get their clothing in department stores. If they did, it would take their company to the next level. The problem was that department stores were only looking at FUBU and not other companies. But the consumers buying Ralph Lauren wouldn’t be the same consumers buying FUBU. So department store representatives would ask them who should be next to their clothing line. That’s how the “urban” term came in for clothing. FUBU told the representatives who to surround their clothing with and created a new department. 00:10:57 In the early days of FUBU the members would ask people for help and they would say, “it’s a waste of time.” Then when the company started to become well-known, people would come and ask them for money or jobs.  00:12:17 Keith would make sales to the specialty stores. He would sell them the clothing he knew would sell, so the storeowners would come back asking for more. It built a great reputation for him. He talks about how every year they would think of new ways to make their booth for the MAGIC convention. They came up with a lot of different strategies to market the booth. One year the fire department had to shut them down due to overcrowding.   00:15:48 Since the MAGIC convention was in Las Vegas, celebrities would often be in attendance. At the FUBU booth, they always had an abundance of extra goodies to give away. They would give out clothes as well as business cards.   00:17:17 A newly released film called “Fresh Dressed” examines the urban clothing movement. It follows how the gangs of New York made their clothing through to urban clothing companies like FUBU. Keith mentions his regret for not keeping some of FUBU’s original clothing.   00:19:36 FUBU came out at the same time when a lot of famous artists were starting out. They were part of the same generation. Every year FUBU would host an event at the Dady’O nightclub in Cancun. Artists like Nelly would reminisce about how FUBU threw the best parties at Dady’O.  00:22:34 The old ways of self-promotion and marketing have changed. The Internet, along with social media, has changed public relations, and FUBU has had to evolve and adapt to these changes. In the past, FUBU would be able to make relationships with developing artists, who would do advertisements for them cheaply. These relationships were made by talking, hanging out and partying with the artists. Other brands have had to pay artists a large amount of cash to represent their clothing.  00:28:12 In 1999 Keith traveled to Japan to promote the opening of a new FUBU store. It was a surprise to see how everyone in Japan dressed like he did and how huge hip-hop was there. It was a feeling of “arriving.” By 1998, FUBU wanted to thank those who supported them, so they started giving back to colleges, boys/girls clubs, etc. They hosted a huge concert in St. Martin to thank the celebrities and press that were supporting them, featuring artists such as LL Cool J, Run-DMC, Mary J. Blige, The Gap Band and more.  00:32:14 The company created another line called Platinum FUBU, featuring better fabrics and more details. The founders wanted Muhammad Ali, Bill Cosby and the Harlem Globetrotters to represent the new line. All three promotions were successful, but Platinum ended up competing with the original FUBU line. It was still a great way to make new relationships. Keith reminisces about visiting with Muhammad Ali in Miami. 00:35:35 Keith and the rest of the FUBU founders were invited to come to South Africa to open a FUBU store in a mall in Johannesburg. Visiting South Africa was a surreal experience; they even received a call to meet Nelson Mandela. Unfortunately the meeting was canceled, but two days later they received another opportunity to meet with him. It was an unforgettable moment for Keith. 00:42:29 FUBU first got its clothing into a small store on Jamaica Avenue called Montego Bay. It was their first introduction to having their clothes in stores. They were then able to get their clothing line into Macy's department store. It was a huge success; at one point Macy’s featured the four FUBU founders in a live, interactive window display [in Manhattan]. 00:49:25 FUBU had a lot of momentum. The company helped Macy’s make its urban department, and it brought in a lot of sales. There was criticism and resistance about FUBU not being “real designers,” but they were still the talk of the town.  00:52:24 For the Platinum FUBU Fat Albert line, they first got the approval from Bill Cosby. That line was a great success, and was followed with the Muhammad Ali line. The Harlem Globetrotter line did well, but not as well as the first two. Since Platinum FUBU was competing with the regular FUBU line, they had to cut back on it and went back to basics with FUBU.  00:55:33 Decisions were made between the FUBU founders and their employees. They would do a majority vote to see which decision to follow. Keith felt blessed that many of their decisions were the correct ones. At times they had great ideas such as the FUBU/NBA clothing license, but it was too early for the times.  00:59:25 FUBU went into a lot of different markets. Their tuxedo line was the most popular for years. When they went into cologne it didn't pan out. Keith was able to see what lines would be able to do well. He knew designers like Puff and Jay Z would do well because they were into fashion, while he felt Eminem’s line wouldn’t sell well. The FUBU founders figured out early that they needed to surround themselves with the right people. 01:06:00 In 2001 FUBU started a record company called FB Records. They had opportunities to sign Ashanti, 50 Cent and Chris Brown but ended up passing on them. In retrospect, they weren’t ready to promote them. They realized that the record company wasn’t going to work because they couldn’t give it 100 percent of their time. It wasn’t their lane and they realized it and moved on. Before wrapping it up, though, the company sold hundreds of thousands of copies of the album, The Good Life. 01:11:32 In 2008 the founders felt the timing was right to put something new out. They looked into other brands and developing them. In 2013 there was a resurgence of FUBU popping up in social media. After researching and analyzing the market, the company is starting FUBU TV, FUBU Radio and various other ventures.  1:16:10 Keith talks about Queens Memory and how his coworkers are excited about it and his mother reacted so positively. He’s proud of how far they all made it. He talks about how Daymond John keeps a crazy schedule – he is now a Presidential Ambassador for Global Entrepreneurship. 1:20:05 Keith wants to bring in quality content for FUBU TV. For FUBU Radio he wants to focus on music from 1990 to 2003. He’s excited about these new ventures. He had moved upstate to a beautiful house to be at peace, but it was too far from his workplace to travel every day. He had lived in some places on Long Island and in the Palisades area before moving further upstate. He lived in the upstate area for 11 years and while he loved it, his social life suffered. It took too long to travel. He has now moved back into Queens and is loving it.  