Father Christopher Piasta of Saint Joseph’s Church is a resident of South Jamaica, Queens. In this interview, Father Piasta reflects on his life experiences, his childhood, and relays his personal predictions for the future. He discusses South Jamaica as a community that has seen massive transformation from past to present and changes in the cultural demographic within the flow of immigrants through time. 
0:27   Father Piasta first arrived in the US in 1997. He lived in Manhattan for two years while studying at New York University, then he left for two years to go to Germany. He returned to the US in 2001 right after the September 11th attacks. Right after his return he spent three years in working at a university in Illinois. He arrived in Queens in 2005 and lived in the Douglaston and Little Neck neighborhood. He has been a vicar for five years now.
1:20   Describes the Douglaston Little Neck Area. Father Piasta states that the Douglaston and Little Neck neighborhood was quite affluent and contained many historical landmarks in the past. The neighborhood was been a mixture of Irish and Italian-Americans with an influx of a Korean diaspora. He found living in the neighborhood quite comfortable and he worked with kids and youth to make ends meet. He also worked part time supporting the campus minister at Queens College until 2010. 
2:36    Christopher was in Germany before coming to the United States in 1997. 
3:06    Christopher’s mom was stay at home mother and his father was a coal miner. Mr. Piasta was the first in his family to join the priesthood. He travelled frequently between Poland and Germany. During this time he learned to speak Polish, German, and other languages.
4:25    Conversation returns briefly to the Douglaston Little Neck Area. Says the area is different from South Jamaica in relation to problems and expectations
5:18     Christopher talks about his schooling and recall his life in SoHo while attending New York University. He talks about the significance of living under the shadows and influence of both the Twin Towers and Empire State Building. 
7:01    Christopher says he’s still in touch with school friends but isn’t in touch with others. 
7:43    Christopher says public transportation in New York City has stayed the same since he moved here in the 2000’s. When he first moved to Manhattan he made a conscious decision to stop using the subway and instead to walk everywhere. Now that he lives in South Jamaica he uses a car.
8:26     Christopher Piasta discusses change in the South Jamaica neighborhood in the last seven years. He mentions a noticeable demographic change in the neighborhood’s population including a visible migration influx of residents from the South Ozone Park, Van Wyck areas. He states that South Jamaica’s newest migrant groups include Indians, Bengalis, Latin American, other Asians ethnicities, and Pakistanis. He also makes a point that these newcomers are mostly property owners, many who invest in fixing and renovating their homes immediately. 
10:24    Christopher states that South Jamaica has some unique characteristics with diverse housing. 
11:48    Conversations shifts to how outsiders would perceive South Jamaica. Christopher states that outsiders would perceive the neighborhood as dangerous. The neighborhood is the site of visible poverty but he claims there is a lot of vigor and life in the area. During the summer, one can find music being played day and night on various block parties.
14:24  Father Piasta goes onto to talk about changes in the neighborhood landscape including the restoration of certain parks. St. Joseph’s Catholic Church participated in a one million trees project organized by Mayor Bloomberg. Churchgoers planted six new saplings around the church.
16:01     Father Piasta claims he can’t remember many significant events beyond aside from the occasional near Jamaica Station.
16:53   He predicts that the neighborhood will undergo a massive change within the next decade. He sees the rising value of Jamaica with its fast commute to the city and its availability of NYCHA and affordable housing.
18:37 Conversation takes a personal turn. Father Piasta about the turbulent transition he felt coming from Douglaston to South Jamaica. Until the 1960s Jamaica was populated by immigrants from Poland, Germany, and Italy. In the last ten years since then influx from other areas has increased. He feels that Jamaica is under appreciated and has a rich history.  
  

 
 


        
 




 




