Christian: Can you state your name date and location?

Christian: Sure, my name is Christiane Pietrapiana we are in Sunnyside Queens and today is November 10th, 2018 

Melissa: ok 

Christian: Around noon I guess it is right?

Melissa 11 30...

Christian 11 30 There you go. 11 20.

Melissa So where are you from and where is your family from originally from?

Christian Ok. I was born in Buenos Aires my parent in Argentina. My parents were from Argentina both. Born there all Italian descent. um   We came here. They brought me here when I was 7 years old.

Christian No I'm sorry when I was three. And they sent me back when I was 7. And I went back with my mother and my father stayed here working and then he went back to Argentina and settled there. In 1990 when I was like 20 something I don't remember. I left the country and I came here for three months and then I was in Milano for a year the following year in Madrid and then I settled back here in New York in 1992.

Melissa: Ok. What made you come here?

Christian: When I was an adult?

Melissa: Yes. 

Christian: That's a good question. Um I spent some years of my childhood here. My father lived in New York for 20 years. And even though I was down in Argentina it was almost always like kind of like a ghost thing like wondering about New York.

Christian:] I wanted to live in Europe for a while I never thought I would end up living in New York City to be quite honest with you. But when I got here, I got captured by the city and its possibilities and its opportunities.

Melissa: And what kind of occupation did your parents both have at that time?

Christian: My mother was a teacher. My father was a designer. And here he was a contractor. And I studied communication. I worked in advertising for many years. When I was down in Argentina and then when I came here, I continued working in advertising as a freelancer, but I got into education because I was into the arts, so I needed like the flexibility and the schedule in order to go to my studio and paint.

Melissa:  What was the highest degree that your parents earned?

Christian:  Uh my mother college degree. My father college degree and I have a Masters’ degree.

Melissa: And what was a neighborhood like here? When you first came as opposed to now? What’s the biggest difference?

Christian:   I came we came here it was the 60s.uhhhhh

Christian:  We were living in Elmhurst for like four years. uhm

Christian:   I was very young. I do remember a lot of English being spoken around me and then when I came here in 1992 of course I noticed the difference with Hispanics and Spanish being spoken all over.

Melissa:  Did you know English when you came over here permanently?

Christian: Yea. Yes, I did. I went to school bilingual school.

Melissa:  Was there a hard transition? I mean you already knew English so 

Christian: No no no no um no it wasn't. It wasn't because I also lived abroad you know. So, no there was no hard transition.

Melissa: How did you get around when you first came. What was your means of transportation? 

Christian:   We are talking about the 90s, right? umm Mass transit. I'm a firm believer in mass transit here or anywhere in the world ahh subway.

Melissa:  What was your involvement in the community back in the 90s and now?

Christian:   I was a high school teacher in the public-school system, so I guess that was pretty much my involvement you know dealing with teenagers ahh in a rough school gangs Big time. Um They were like you know lower income children. uh It was a great experience. And then more into my work into my art involved in the community with art exhibits.

Melissa:  What specifically did you teach?

Christian:   Social studies. I started with art with a program they had it was called Global Art and it was more art history and we were very much connected. Our high school with the Metropolitan Museum of Art. I think it was like four or five years down the line they ran out of federal money for that program. So, I went back to regular social studies.

Melissa:  Were you involved in any community events or festivals or did you participate in a lot of?

Christian:   NO. NO. NO. No. I guess not. No, I'm not into that No.

Melissa:  And um what are there any religion or traditions that were passed down you that you still practice now?

Christian:   Well my family are you we are being Italian origin they're all Catholic. I was I was baptized. I never took the community. I mean the communion. um My parents were spiritual, but they were not. That they would not go to church in my house. No, I didn't grow up with that. I mean I respect all religions but I'm not that into it in terms of traditions and festivities except Christmas because it's fun.

Melissa:  And are there any traditions that are passed down that you still? umm

Christian: I guess my only tradition that we have in my family is to celebrate friendship. To be honest with you more than the established traditions of whatever it was my family was pretty much into friendship. So, if I have to say what traditions were passed down was like getting together around the table with friends you know and eating and having conversations having fun regardless of the calendar.

 Melissa: And where was there specific household that everybody went to to participate?

Christian:   It was back in Argentina it was our home and my mother's cousin.

Melissa:   OK. And how many family members were in your household?

Christian:   I-I don't have siblings unfortunately, so it is only me and we're a very small family. My parents have like just two siblings each. uh Not a lot of kids. It's a small family. It happens a lot in Argentina. People don't get a lot of you know regular families don't have more than two or three kids.

Melissa:  How were you influenced to be an occupation that you are in right now? I know you said you was was a teacher

Christian:   My mother and my grandfather they were both into education but also my grandfather was a painter… back in the day in Argentina. So that absolutely influenced me with the arts. I mean I'm pretty much self-taught. I didn't do academic art. And uh but I did grow up with him and watch him paint. And yeah, I would say he's my father too. My father was very creative. So that's what at some point I was like you know I'm doing this for a living. But you know my involvement is in the arts.

Melissa:  Do you have any famous artists that you look up to or aspire?

Christian:   It Changed it changed over time and that's a good question. I think it happens it happens to everyone. I'm a big fan of Francis Bacon. But um yeah, I would say Bacon. 

Melissa: Ok And ummmm Was anybody involved in the military? 

Christian:   No. No. I had to go to military service back in Argentina because it was mandatory at the time. They changed the law and somewhere in the 90s but when I was 18 everybody had to go to military service and it wasn't a dictatorship. So, I had to serve for a year.

Melissa: Ok ..And what was it like in your school system was growing up. What was that like?

Christian:   The school system back home. I went to private schools. So, it was pretty much contained. It was mind blowing when I started teaching in the New York public high school system in NY that kept me going because it was so fascinating to me. The dichotomy from what I was used to and yeah that was a big big shock but a good one.

Melissa: What were your hobbies when you first came here and now. What are your hobbies. Have they changed?

Christian:   I mean I don't have I don't have specific hobbies. No, I do sports I run, and I paint, and I take out the garbage. (laughs) and I recycle.

Melissa: Is there anything that you do here like like when you're not working. Is there any spy you like to go to within the neighborhood?

Christian:   I lived in Manhattan for many years of course Central Park. And since I'm been to Queens, I like to go to the east river to look at the river yea

Melissa: Do you have any fun facts about yourself or you know or the neighborhood?

Christian:   The neighborhood um I don't think I have fun facts as an as an entertainer but, Long Island City when I got there was still Light Industry. Uhm I found it to be fascinating. It was great for artists. There were a lot of empty places so it giving to artist for us as free space to paint.

Christian:  You could walk your dog without a leash. You knew everybody in the neighborhood. And it changed rapidly in the last few years and not for good. If you ask me, I don't think it was well planned. All these high buildings by the water. I think there was a lack of planning in terms of mass transit in terms of the sewage system. It's all over the news and they have been writing about this for many many years. The government local government got involved with this with developers and I think they overlook the local community to be honest with you. I've been here for like 20 years and I'm not happy about it. I'm not happy about what they did to the neighborhood. I think there are different ways to develop a neighborhood like they did in some areas in Brooklyn for example that they put a cap on the building heights of five six story buildings not the monstrosities are doing in the city so I'm totally against that and it's not fun it's not fun anymore. I also you know I know it's not very popular to say that I think it's great that young families are moving in but they're too much giving to the kids and I don't see enough for seniors in the community and there were people here that lived here for years when this was rough when you had cracks and you had the prostitutes in the corner and they're still here and I feel that the government and the community in general is forgetting about them and it's is all about you know the newcomers. Which is a whole different social economic level.

Melissa: Where do you see the neighbor in five to ten years from now?

Christian:   Overpopulated as it is now. I think it's going to it's going to be transformed. I mean I don't have a magic ball but it's going to be it's already transformed. But a lot of people you can't find parking happened to you today the subway system is not prepared. I mean you go through rush hour wait for the 7 train and courts square where you must let go of like… two trains maybe Because of it. So, I have a problem with the overdevelopment of long and the city. I think it could have done differently with more. planning involved. But I think they all got greedy. Government and developers got very greedy.

Melissa: How long have you been here overall?

Christian:   I settled in New York in 92. And in Long Island City I've been here since 1998. So, that would be twenty years yea.

Melissa: Let’s talk more about more about your shows and your art. What is the most memorable show that you’ve had or what is your biggest accomplishment.

Christian:   Oh, I don’t I don't want to go back. I mean with all the list of shows and you know that's why I have my website. But we didn't put together a quite interesting show now in September of this year at the Plaxo gallery which is a great art space that the artist community have. I don't know for how long but it's really well. And we put together an exhibit about climate change. I don't know if it's an accomplishment or achievement but I'm pretty much in into this climate change problem and that many people deny. So, um yeah, I was very turned on by that because we had good artists participating it was a group exhibit. We had good artists participating and we had good work and very good feedback from the public and the press and climate change organizations.

Melissa: And what do you specifically specialize in art?

Christian:  I do painting and drawing visual arts. 

[00:15:12] And where do you get your inspiration from?

Christian:   Usually life for the last year. It's been a change I've been intervening pages of The New York Times. To be honest with you. So, what inspires me is more in politics Not specifically politics about partisanship and all that. But in terms of you know where the world is going in terms of again overpopulation is a big topic for me. Consumerism is a huge topic for me. Climate change those things that I think will affect generations to come. Corruption is another one.

Melissa: Is there.. Do you have like a certain spot that you go to go ahead you know perform your art work when you are painting? 

Christian:   No, you know I get I get the newspaper and I sit right here looking through these windows to these trees and I do my work here.

Melissa: What is your most. I know you've traveled a lot. So, what is your most memorable travel experience ?

Christian:  That would not be fair because every single travel experience has been
 Unique whether it was because of the place or the person that I was with.
 I would have to refer like the other question to the latest one. I mean it's it's with a friend of mine. We crossed the Andi's on horseback. That was rough. It was long. And it was magnificent. 

Melissa: Are you involved in equestrian? 

Christian:   I grew up in Argentina I would go to people friend’s countryside and ride horses. Am I a professional horseback rider? Absolutely not. Uhm well you know you manage.

Melissa: How many languages do you speak? 
 
Christian:  Spanish as my main one the only one that I can say I control almost absolutely. Uhhhh English and then Italian and a little bit of French.

Melissa: How were you able to speak all those languages? Was it hard learning? 

Christian:  I have to give credit to my mother. She always like into languages and she forced me when I was a kid even though I didn't want to, so I have to be thankful to her.

Melissa: Does your family? What was the main language in your household growing up? 

Christian:  It was Spanish. It was all spanish Spanish. I mean my grandparents would speak Italian amongst themselves. My parents understood it, but they didn't teach it to me. But I would listen to it. They would basically speak Italian when they didn't want me to know what was going on

Melissa: And there there wasn't any traditions passed from the Italian family I guess you know I guess it will be the typical thing you know Sunday pasta. But I don't I can't think of…. You’re digging into my memory now. My grandfather the painter. I only met my grandparents from my mother's side because from my father's side they were they were dead by the time I was born. Umm And my grandfather was his tradition was to make this of as a kind of stew. Once a year it was a big deal. It's called búseca. And I remember that.

Melissa: Are there any food places that you go in Queens today that kind of remind you of?

Christian:   No but I love I love I love the Court's Square Diner. And that's I always say to the owners to Steve and Nick that if I had a lot of money, I would like rent permanently a booth there, so I can go there and do my work and have coffee and see all the people from the neighborhood. I love Court Square Diner….. And I find it inspiring because you still see there's another one. It used to be a place where you'd see all the people from the neighborhood and we're losing that Because you see a lot of new faces now. And I don't want to seem like an asshole, but they don't seem very friendly. It's it's different a different vibe. It's a different vibe. We would go to the diner and you would always like spend like you know before you order you like 10 minutes talking to your friends or neighbors. And now it's different… it's different. 

Melissa: What do you think is the cause of that? Why is there so many changes? 

Christian: Rapid development. It was very abrupt. So, I think there was not enough time to absorb all the new comers. I think another factor is that a lot of the development in Long Island City is still rentals. That's why I was talking about greed before they don’t up apartments for people to buy and settle and invest in the neighborhood. There’ll all  rentals. So, you have new people coming in living there for like three four years and then your company transfer you somewhere else and you leave so there's no investment in the in the neighborhood and the community. And I guess that's what I've been trying to say complaining about all this development that you see a lot of people coming and leaving. As if it were some I don't know. Sometimes it seems like you know midtown Manhattan. And that's a big change that long island city suffered in my opinion.

Melissa:  What you say is very diverse inspires people.

Christian: Well Queens it's out their Queens is the most diverse borough in the entire country. You know I'm there. You can google it. I don't know how many languages are spoken in Queens in terms of long island city…. It wasn't very populated like other places in Queens. Now it is whose moving in? I don't know. I don't know. I think yeah, I don't know. I see more young white families and Asian

Melissa: And then um…. So again, besides the café. the diner is there any other spots you like to go to? 

Christian: I just love that diner…. uhm
 
Melissa: How often do you go?

Christian: I go like ... we eat there like sometimes two ...three times a week if you don’t want to cook that’s the place to go. 

Christian:  I go to LIC bar because you know you can still smoke on the patio. I'm a smoker. You can go to LIC market which is a magnificent restaurant. The owners are great people in the neighborhood. Mandu Cutty's by Giana. They've been here in the neighborhood for a long time. That's what that's the thing also. My partner and myself were involved with the arts and I think for eight years I've been organizing the LIC Arts Open which is a festival of a whole weekend for artists to open their studios and you have exhibits and all that and organized by Richard Masta and other old-time artists in the area. And so, we were always involved with that. We offer the house as a fundraiser. That's why we have to interview Arusty. Ummm So what I'm trying to say is we've been involved with the community with the artist community in Long Island City for quite some time and that's where you can see the change. With all this development. But places where we hang out. I would say still is the diner or now at Plaxo. I mean Plaxo is a great place not only for exhibits and plays but it's also a place for artists to get together and hang out. That's good.

Melissa: I know you mentioned you like to run, play sports. What type of… where do you run around here?

Christian:  That's a good one. We don't have new parks to run I don't run here. I used to run when I was living in Manhattan. What I do here is yoga. And I have a great instructor in Long Island City. Alicia Bustamante and I do yoga, I got into yoga thanks to her. 

Melissa: And then umm I am just trying to think… oh and the music I hear…classical music. Does this help you also to with your art work? 

Christian:  Classical music calms me down its my volume (laughs) uhm yea I like Since you got here. You asked me these very good questions and I feel that. Because I feel old by answering honestly, I'm totally honest because I used to you know listen to all you know, and Peter Gabriel and you know Sting and all that. And lately and I am trying to listen to more classical music because there are no lyrics, I don't want to hear them. Yappy yappy yappy yappy. Which is age I believe.

Melissa: Does this… does this help you with your painting and your art? 

[00:25:43] It helps me with… Yeah. Obviously, I mean… I always have music when I when I paint. But even when I don't paint I do I like the music because you can’t listen to the birds here unfortunate because you feel the pumps. I mean with all the construction around you. So, in the past you used to listen to little birdies and the trees and now it’s all like construction work and sirens, so you know that’s also a change in the neighborhood.

Melissa: Did you always know you wanted to be an artist… a painter? 

Christian: I was always since I have memory. I always had like a pencil or a crayon in my hand. I remember my mother you know… getting mad at me because I would like do it on the walls. I didn't study formal art because in those days and at that time I think it was a generational thing. My parents were like well you're going to study art you've got to starve. So, you might as well you know find something more practical to do. And that's when I got into communication and but then. The bug was inside me and I was hanging out with artists at the time and the inspiration of my grandfather that I told you. So I started painting and I started hanging out with people down in Argentina and I continue doing that here. I wouldn't be able to tell if I wanted to be an artist from many years I didn’t know even what the fuck I wanted. So, you know it wasn't about a profession or an activity. But I always knew that there was something different.
 Ah different because I ended up being gay or I was always gay. I don’t know …I had a bisexual life for many years and it was different in the way I saw things. It was emotionally within my family my parents were divorced for 10 years and then they got back together. So, I don't come from a stable nicely like family although I love my parents and I'm very appreciative from what I got from them. Honestly, I really appreciate everything. No I didn't know that but I knew there was something different. From my perspective that was clear really early on how it was going to take shape I have no clue.

Melissa: And did you always.. was art always an outlet for you from everything that was going on? 

[Christian:] I was a very shy kid and I was very timid. Thanks to therapy again I'm from one side and you know go into psychotherapy is almost like a national sport down there. Not like here but they still have the stigma that psychotherapy. There's something wrong with you or you're nuts or something. Uhhhh Buenos Aires has a very people who are into that they know that they have a very specific school of psychotherapy. So uhm Because of that I think I got more outgoing social, but I was very timid and very shy I still am. It's just that I forced myself you know to break out of that shell

Melissa: Were you shy coming to New York when you first were here? Was it overwhelming?

Christian:  uhhhhh. It's a good question because nobody forced me to come so I came here because I had a very good life down there. I didn't come here because I was looking for a particular, I had a good job. Down there. I had. Nobody understood because I really had a really good life. I think I left the country because of my sexual orientation to be honest with you. Ummm I was there with my girlfriend and blah blah blah. And I needed to find out more about me and I thought that it was moving from one neighborhood to the other wasn't enough. And I always wanted to experiment and challenge myself in a different culture in a different country. So, for all those reasons I left Argentina. Uhh but I have to be clear on that because I did not come here because I wanted to get more money. That was not my story. My story was more like a personal journey. More than coming here and getting a better job and getting a car and the American Dream. That’s not in my spectrum at all. It was never in my spectrum

Melissa: How did you know you were ready to make that move? 

Christian: To leave the country? 

Melissa: Yea

Good Question. Ummm I grew up around … my father was always back and forth. So that sense of like longing and separation and anxiety was always there which is not comfortable. Ummm I knew that I was ready when I realized that again I had a really good job I was making good money. Uhhhh I was not that happy. And my best friends at the time left the country to go study abroad to go and try their luck abroad. And that ignited and that triggered, and I was going to do it for a year. And as a matter of fact, I had a job down there and they said ok go do your thing we will wait for you. And I resigned. I think from Paris a year later. I sent them a fax we had fax in those days there was no internet. And and I never went back formally.

Melissa: What job was that in?

Christian: Advertising. I was a creative copywriter for advertising for many years. Uh interesting enough not into the visuals. I was doing all the conceptual, campaigns and tv spots and all that as a copywriter. I never mixed the visuals with that. They were both very creative. Honestly. Umm that’s what I was doing and then I did that for a while here and I was doing it in Spanish down there so it was very hard to fit into Madison Avenue which is the cradle of advertising internationally having Spanish as your first language cause there were a lot of double antinode in English I was missing so I realized that it was not going to be for me. And by that time, I was already into the arts. I knew that it was going to be through art and I would have to make a living somewhere and that’s where the indication fell on my lap. uhh and maybe it doesn’t sound very good I really enjoyed it all the years I did it. I was totally into it. And then I realized it was almost like a fantasy that I had before my mother and my father were both into education. I grew up with that and I always wanted to give it a shot. I don’t know, I think I am like going off topic. 

Melissa: And Uhh what keeps you motivated to stay within the arts ... and I, I know you mentioned earlier umm you were warned it was going to be tough... starving artist but what keeps you motivated and striving to keep going? 

Christian: It’s a good question. I think we all go through that umm what keeps me going is that’s who I am even though you go through periods where you do not produce well. That point of view I mentioning before is always there, that’s who I am. I think I will like keep doing this until I drop dead. And it has nothing to do with success. I mean if success comes great welcome and if nothing happens, I will still be painting and drawing and doing my creative shit. Uhhh because that’s who I am .. as a matter of fact, when I go through periods for some reason, I didn’t do it, it feels weird, it feels that I am not attending this part of me of who I am. What motivates me I have no idea. I think life itself. And all the things that we have to do and say. 

And what advice would you give to young artists that want to pursue art as a career?

That you need to have a very thick skin uhhh I think it boils down to economics. Same like with acting or anything. Yes, pursue it and do it like the typical cliché follow your dreams all that bullshit but ummm do it but you need to have a very thick skin because it’s a matter of economics and market. Uhhh the market cannot absorb all the artists that want to be artists out there. The market cannot absorb all the wannabe actors. So, there are going to be casualties. And that’s life that’s what I that’s what I was saying I mean I could be a casualty or not. I don’t know. But it doesn’t matter I will still do what I do. Not out of being capricious or stubborn I will do it because that is who I am and what I need to do but in terms of advice I don’t like to give advice. But it would be that it would be like you know you have to toughen up and you have to have a thick skin and you have to get used to rejections and that’s good because it will make you think of what you are doing and maybe people will get rejected so much that they will say ok I’ll do something else. And maybe with others before all that rejection they will like really to self-evaluate their work. And take it to a different direction or turn around. I don’t know

Was there ever umm a pivotal moment in your career that you know changed you and and and told you this is where you need to be? 

Uhhhhh Ummm when I was doing my quote on quote successful advertising work in Argentina, that wasn’t quite satisfying internally but it was satisfying in terms of my wallet and bank account. Uhh I was lucky enough to have people int the arts that supported me early on with my painting. As they saw something there uhh my grandfather also was very supportive of that you know before than he died. Ummm a pivotal moment I think it happened yea when I came to New York I already knew that I was going to be doing that more like full time. Ummm it no I think it happened in the 80s when I was in Buenos Aires and I was in advertising and I was like sick and tired of the fucking client and his mood for the day and all that uhhh. And seeing that there you know were like you know the budgets were like very high to sell coke instead of Pepsi really there is like you need hospitals schools and all this money going into this marketing bullshit to sell a brand ummm and then I started to go to more to museums and looking at art differently and it hit me in the face it was like this is it, this is it, it’s like this is how I want to look at life uhhh through besides the typically terms of light and shadow and texture and academia in the arts. I wanna look at art a life through art because that is enriching to me. Uhhh that’s why I guess I walked away from advertising. 

Melissa: Are there any quotes or mottos that you live by?
I know it can be hard to think of. 

Christian: I read a lot laughs I hmmmm quotes I have a million… I I love quotes that’s why I am blanking.  I love quotes I use them a lot sometimes for my work uhhh, but I have very bad memory I have no idea. I can’t recall any one. But I do read a lot of philosophy. I do like that. I am not into the novels. I was never into that, but I do read poetry. I do read philosophy and I am always underling passages and I am like oh I think this is brilliant. This is great, so I don’t know 


Christian: Let’s see what we have here.  Uuuhhhhh what do we have here duhhhh duhhhhh 

Christian: It’s just that I don’t know who said this because I have. 

Christian: I can’t think of who said it but I have this little book here where I write quotes and this one says the question is what to do with the time that is given to us and I go over this everyday and not I am not into religion but this one was from the buddha that says we are burning with greed ignorance and anger and I think it reflects times that we are living in and I could apply that to everything. Our everyday life art politics friends
