Merida Plasencia relates changes in her life since the small town where she was born to New York, where she lives now. Many are the vicissitudes which she lived, many are the shocking contrasts of different experiences that she went through. She speaks with clarity but very passionately. We see in detail some of her experiences, the desire to continue contributing even more to that life that she looked to develop turbulently in front of her. Merida knows that she has contributed much with her family and friends, but she would like to continue to be doing more... However, she accepts the limitations that age cause on her, as well as her vision problem, problem against which she fights harshly and tries to follow along without being overcome.
 
00:00:20 	Merida was born in a small town from the Peruvian coast, being the oldest of her parent’s children. Her family had many difficulties, but Merida points out that she had "excellent parents… within all the needs that we all passed", since they strove to give them the maximum that they could offer to their children. She says that her father and her mother were never as usual people of the village, who did with their children what their parents did to them, "my father was not so… I knew everything he spent when he was a child and nothing to do with the way how he treated us because he gave us all the affection that was able and covered all our needs... "I was one of the girls... I'm talking about when I remember… I was six or seven years old... I was a girl a little spoiled, haughty... than normal for a girl of that age", but the people who treated her had a different idea of how she was considering herself, of how Mérida was gone. Merida says that "I don't know if my parents gave me the chance for being the way I was or is it that I wanted to be that way." 
 
00: 01:50 	Once upon a time arrived the day that Merida and her family had to move to another house. Her father was a fisherman and this work gave him the opportunity to make lots of money in a very short time, and he loved the good things such as jewels. The father knew a family in a nearby town named Chimbote, that family was devoted to jewelry and almost all fishermen went there for buying their jewelry. That family came to love their parents, it was clear that they also did it because they were their customers, it should not be forgotten that the fishermen gave them to earn enough money. The truth is that this family came to have so much fondness with them that they suggested to Merida’s parents to send her to study in Chimbote.
 
00:03:18 	Merida was a girl of about nine or ten years when she went to live to Chimbote, to those friend’s family house. The jewelers were people affluent and, therefore, they had a good house, and received her as if she were part of their own family, "with its limits, of course." Merida was a little girl who had no manners and those jewelers were educated people, "I tried to accommodate me with the mores of them" and behaved with her in a "good" way that until now, after so many years, Merida still appreciates them and she follows "remembering all the things I lived when I was in their house."
 
00:04:18 	Merida left her home in her village on Monday with destination to Chimbote and returned to her town on Friday afternoon. "When I arrived back to Samanco (my people) my mother... everyone received me with love." By that time her mother possibly had a baby or had much work with her children she already had. Merida says that "I was a child... I do not know if it was something natural in me, but I protected her so much, I didn't like the people that was around her and so many of them said that I was a brat child." Neighbors came to her home, and she told to her mother’s friends that they should go somewhere else to meet with any other ladies of the neighborhood but not with her mother, "I said to them: no, my mom is not here", and she did not want his mother to be at those meetings because I had seen those ladies group and they were disliked people, they "just don't like me" either, and “I wouldn't let that my mom was... in some way I prevented my mother consort with those people." Thus Merida grew up until the complete family moved to Chimbote, which brought a series of changes to the lives of all the family members, but for reasons that I don't remember, the family ended up returning back to Samanco, however later returned to go to Chimbote again, where her younger brothers were studying and they wanted something more than what the home town could give them. "I was the largest and had to be there for my brothers, for my parents."
 
00:06:28 	Merida studied art and sewing in Chimbote. She was a young girl from about fourteen or fifteen years old, and the people admired much to her because "they said that I was beautiful... I do not know to what extent." The issue is that her uncles and all the like thought she did not want to mingle with people surrounding her, but "I don't think that it was the case because I was a very simple, even shy, very shy girl." 
 
00:07:15 	Time spent and the family had to move to Lima by her brothers who wanted to study there. In Lima Merida grew up, and "came the time when I was ready for working, I was like seventeen or eighteen years old..." She had to work because “my dad did as much as he could, but sometimes that that couldn't be enough because we were many children and all were studying. When I wanted to work, I had no preparation (...) for a good job, for example, of a Secretary, but I had the desire to do so (...) I sought it so persistently that I found a person who helped me, and that was my first job, in a pharmacy, in Lima." She learned the work in the pharmacy and she went to another pharmacy after that, another one where she met people who loved her. "I have had that luck: the people loved me, they came to have me affection." So Mérida met someone who knew someone else at a cosmetics company and this person saw in Merida a potential to be representative of that company and thought that she could do that job. That person, a girl, led her to where she past a series of tests and that company finally gave her the job. Sidney Ross was the laboratory’s name that represented the cosmetics company. "I worked there and it was a nice job… I loved it because all the girls were pretty well and they were always well dressed." She felt well there, they gave her everything, and she wore very nice. "I was lucky that I made me my own clothes myself." Merida stayed in that company for a long time, until her friends of the group began to emigrate, to come to the United States. They did all the good-byes and Merida was always in those farewells, and "for some reason I was encouraged also to come here." 
 
00:10:35 	Merida said that she had to come, but she had nothing here and she really did not think that someone could help her, but in those times came to Lima a person who lived in New York, and who was a friend of her brother. She and a friend of the family they were together to see and to ask him what possibilities were they and if they could come to his country. That person responded that "I guess that yes because there is work for everybody." It was the year of 1971 and that person told them how they could come and get ahead. Merida came, and "I was so lucky that I was received for a lovely, a very nice family," perhaps, she thinks, she never made to know that family the appreciation which she keeps to them because "they tended me the hand without any interest in anything: I arrived and they gave me home, food, everything." 
 
00: 12:03 	When Merida arrived to New York, it occurred (with her surprise) that, at the beginning there is no how to work here, but that one has to be helped by someone to find a job. People who received her here "gave me everything and without any interest." Merida worked in one or another thingy. Those friends, where she lived, presented her to a Peruvian friend and even "planned my wedding" because Merida did not know him at all. "They told me: If you marry with so and so, you will do the wedding here..." That lady planned her wedding as if she were seeing it, and Merida did not know the person with which the lady were planning the wedding.
 
00:13:08 	Merida was married to the person appointed to be her spouse after four months of having known him. "I was a pretty girl, he was impressed and offered me marriage… We got married. He had ready all their papers to make the residence." Merida got pregnant almost immediately. When she was with one or two months of pregnancy, he had to go to the Peru for the residence, but once there things did not go as he had thought, the American consulate put him a sentence of two years and could not do their roles. When her spouse was in Lima, her child was born here, in New York, and she "didn't spend it very well because a single woman with a girl" it was very difficult to move forward, but Merida was a woman, "I had no qualms about fighting for my girl. I was lucky to have the help of my aunt Olga (sister of my mother)" who helped her much with her child because she took care of her while Mérida was going to work… That was a very tough stage for her... The family that helped her from the beginning, continued helping her… Then became her cousin Martha, from Lima, who lived with her. Together with her cousin life was better because they shared expenses and so the thing was easier to Merida.
 
00:15:44 	Time passed and Mérida’s spouse did not arrive. Irma, the girl, already had two years when the spouse might just come. Soon get him Mérida was again pregnant of her son Robert. The child was born, but it was somewhat more difficult for Merida because the spouse arrived from Peru with sexist ideas and she had to be very strong in order to keep their marriage. Mérida continued to work. She was a very enterprising person, "I liked to do things well and where I was going to work, that people liked so much of me, they appreciated me so much that they gave me opportunities..." She got to work with people of Haute Couture in Fashion Ave. "and I always had the confidence and appreciation of those people." 
 
00:17:34 	Merida worked some years, but she had a big problem with her vision and that prevented her from continue to work, so she decided to leave it. But she needed a job, however she did not know what to do. In those times, recently, they had bought the house in which they now live, and her spouse needed all the help, and that required that she works. That was a very hard stage. She stopped working because the company moved and all employees lost work. Run out of work was something very terrible for Mérida. Of course she did not told her spouse, but "I went out every day, well dressed, as if I was going to work", but in reality she was going to look for a job. She toured different companies who saw her true potential, but her English was not good, she could not hold a conversation. 
 
00:19:02 	Merida had been very lucky in her previous jobs because there were many Latin people and the bosses made all the possible for understanding workers. Later, when she had to change jobs, the thing was not easy because she wanted a good job, a better job, but she could not have it because of the language problem. She could not work in a shop or go to an interview for that same reason. Merida was desperately looking for job until one day she meets a friend who advised her to go to a company of trucks carrying children to school (school buses). Thanks to her friend she got work in that company. It was a job a bit bad because the majority of the drivers treated to the ladies as if they were anything (abused them). "And I, since I came to this job, my sights were something else... I didn't want to stay there." 
 
00:21:01 	Mérida began to go to school for studying English in the times in which she worked on school buses, and also began to study the GED, which successfully completed in a short time. She quite improved their language skills.
 
00:21:36 	When Mérida was working three months on the school bus, seeing how women were treated, she did not want to be treated that way, but she couldn't do anything else because the need of working was so great and she had to work there... In that work she had much free time because she only worked a few hours. And one day decided to take the risk and asked a girl, from the school where the bus to leave children, "do you think if I can do volunteer working here? The girl looked at me in a well-derogatory way, because I was wearing the uniform of the bus and told me: I don't know, but I do not think that they accept you” Merida was so but so discouraged and depressed… Mérida did not know what happened at that moment, but she lifted her mood and said herself that she was going to try anyway. A couple of weeks spent and she asked to another girl the same thing to the previous one, and that girl was so good that she said that she did not know but she advised her to go to speak with the supervisor. Merida went immediately to speak with the supervisor. She acknowledges that her English was bad enough, but "this supervisor… I don't know what she saw in me... She saw in me the desire that I had, is what I think, and she said to me: well, but you know that this is a work in which... you could get a job where you could make money, here you will not earn money. I replied: I don't care, I like children, I want to work with children, I want to help children, and I can work for free because I have long time, I have always worked full time and now I don't know what to do with my time. And she replied: Ok, well, we will", and she took her to a classroom and told one lady that was very nice, she would help there. The lady was very nice, very simple and taught the class, showed children that Merida had to take care and gave all the orders. 
 
00:24:22 	Merida stayed as a volunteer at that school for a month and when holidays approached the teacher asks her if she wanted to work there, and Mérida responded that yes, that she wanted to work there. Then the teacher told her that that was the very moment. She took her where the supervisor was and told her: "Merida wants to work here", the supervisor looked at her and said: "oh yes? OK." She gave her the application and Merida filled it, she needed only letters from people who knew her and certificate of High School (which she already had it). At the end, she took everything and the supervisor gave her the job immediately because the teacher had advocated for her, the teacher had said: "this is a lady who gives everything and deserves this job", and Mérida knew it because the supervisor said it to her. 
 
00:25:30 	Merida exclaims when she arrives at this point: "what an incredible! That work was something that I had never thought that I could have because I never had experience of working with children! That was something that God put in my way." She was working there little more than 13 years, until she retired.
 
00:25:48 	At this point, Merida said that she has not spoken of her children because she was excited talking about his own accomplishments, which make her feels very proud... She had two cute boys: Irma, his eldest daughter and Robert. Irma has now two daughters and she is teacher... For Merida it was not easy to raise them and give them education because her spouse had a strong character and also the girl, but she says that she was always in the middle, "trying to help them, always giving them as much as I could, and I always wanted my boys to do what I could not do when I was young." 
 
00:26:40 	Merida said that Irma grew up, and after finishing her High School, she joined FIT because she wanted to be Interior Designer. She was actually on partial time at FIT, but two years later she already had the opportunity of making full time… In the second year of being studying Interior Design, Irma decided that she didn't want to do that for her life and said to her mother: "Mommy, I don't want to do that, I've changed idea and I think that that is not for me." Merida and Alfonso (her spouse) were surprised because they had already spent enough money to pay school and expensive design books. Merida told Irma: "daughter, no matter", she understood her. Alfonso was upset… Irma registered at Queens College where she studied for teacher. She did it very well and finished his Bachelor's degree. Irma was a very enterprising girl, from young girl she always worked in some big places and while she decided to do her master's degree and she graduated with honors. "This time my daughter gave us a tremendous pride (...) she paid us all the sacrifice that we had made."
 
00:29:25 	Robert went to Orlando to study at the University. He is three years younger than Irma. His trip to Orlando was the cause of "a very large pain for me... maybe for my spouse too." Merida said that Robert was young and that he had many setbacks, because he was away from the house and that was the cause of that he committed many errors... one of the mistakes that nearly ends his studies was that he told his mother that in a given year he would not study because he had many debts and wanted to pay them. Merida said that "I don't know where came from me the power to say to my son: you do not ever say that, I don't want to hear it again, you tell me if you need help, but please I don't want to hear you're not going to study..." He was frightened. “He said: Mommy, but do not do so, is only for one year, I'm going to return to school. I told him: no, I don't want to hear that... Unfortunately he had already lost that cycle." When Robert said all of that, says Merida, "how could I have the energy that I gave him? How it is that he listened to me? And he wrote a letter… I don't know what he did, I don't know how he regained the scholarship... regained the scholarship which had already being removed from him and then he graduated in finance (...) which I am so, so proud... because that was the greatest thing that I could receive: that my kids succeed in something.”
 
00:32:00 	Merida recognizes that her spouse "helped me a lot, but he has a very different character", but she can however say that everything in what their children succeeded, they did so because he worked hard, but she knows that in those achievements "much had to see my strength, my fortress." Irma is now married, she has two young girls "to whom I love" and she get a son-in-law that "I love as if it were my son." And "well, my son is working, he is making things... maybe soon he may also have a home, a spouse... thing that I would like to see."
 
00:33:16 	Merida says emphatically: "I am happy because I am doing great things and I think that they are appreciated (...) I don't want to mention what, because here is the person to whom am I pushing a little bit, but also giving much encouragement to go ahead which is my brother Walter... I hope that he can achieve everything I want for him someday."
 
00:34:25 	When Merida arrived to this country that was for her a big change: "In Peru I was a girl who had everything, I had it all... My mother was a great mother: I came at home from work and my mother had me all ready, so her daughter eat, so her daughter can make the nap (...) to me… I was treated like a queen at work also because... my job was a job where I had to be there very nice... the people admired the girls that were working on that company (...), people went to watch us... At that time I worked at the SEARS store in Jirón de la Unión... and people would look at us: seeing how we were makeup, shape how we dressed, i.e. we were the attraction." Mérida does not know now if coming was the best decision for her, then she thinks and says: "I think yes, it was a good decision because... After all here... It was a very terrible change, because I came... being a girl always flattered, always respected, I came here and what I had to do? I got to a factory, for working with people well rude... because unfortunately there are people who come from our countries and they have nothing, they have no education, have no principles... It was something horrible that I had... I couldn't stop talking about... If I didn't speak they told me that why I do not talk and said horrible things that I won't repeat... My appearance changed in a horrific manner that if someone came from Peru and they saw me, they could say: this is Merida? This is not her, she cannot be... I spent many things... at first it was very hard, very hard working (…) I was who put me in there, and as I was... at that time I was alone because my spouse was in the Peru, I had to work there, I didn't have another choice."
 
00:37:19 	Merida says that helping her children at school was very hard for her: "first by language: I had no English, but it was so lucky that teachers... they knew that I did not speak English, but took me appreciation and they were doing everything for helping me... When Irma was small, I wanted that she was in a bilingual class because the girl didn't know the language... we spoke pure Spanish at home, the girl did not know English. When I decided to put her into the school, I was lucky to find a very nice Colombian Lady, who had been Irma’s teacher in nursery, and she said: no Mrs. Plasencia, do not put her in bilingual class... bilingual classroom teachers do not speak well the Spanish and also they do not speak very well English, the child will not learn Spanish and she also will not learn English. Let her go to a regular classroom... I thank so much to lady Montoya, because she was the one that gave me that advice... Irma was in regular class and in the middle year she was already speaking English well... With Robert there was no problem because he was talking to her sister and learned fast." Merida adds that she also learned a little English, but she could not have a conversation with the teachers, who were fond of what she was doing and they made all the possible for helping her. She says: "I remember that I once went to a class that teachers gave for helping the children in the house... I had learned different math and here... I did not know… they explained it in English." So Merida says that she was not capable of helping her children, although she had the desire to help them. When Irma grew up she needed help in math and Merida sought him a College person, a girl that could help her at home because she could not do so since she did not know the language. And the same thing happened with the other courses. That was a "terrible experience" for her, but she came out in front so that her children appreciate everything she did for them because she cared and really had the desire to help: that was what made the children appreciate and strive what she did for them.
 
00:40:55 	Climatic difference between Lima and New York was also terrible for Merida. She arrived in October and there was a radiant sun in the street, so she was coming out only with a blouse, blouse that she was wearing inside the house, but the boys warned that she cannot come out because it was cold outside. She answered that if sun was shining it could not be cold outside, so Merida went out without the right clothes and that is something that she always remembers.
 
00:41:49 	Merida had never suffered from allergies in her country, but after her son Robert was birth she had a very severe change in her system and she began to have a terrible allergy to pollen. She had to go to the doctor that put her a shot, which did not like her, but that was the only way that she could feel good.
 
00:42:37 	Merida’s mother came to this country because her sister, Carmen Rosa, came in... Initially Merida did not want her sister Carmen Rosa came... Once, when Mérida was in Peru, her sister told her that she wanted to come, Merida asked her not to do it because it was very hard, Carmen was good in Lima, she had her work, for what reason did she want to come? Merida talked about the experience that she had herself throughout the process that followed her transfer from Lima to New York. She also left a job in Peru, she resigned and "I didn't spend bad things because I had... that family that helped me so much, but I didn't want that she came to start with a work that had nothing to do with what she was doing in the Peru. But my sister said to me: no, I'm going to go. And Carmen came in against the odds, and we could help her, received her... She came by Mexico, across the border, through terrible things. Poor girl... but she managed to get to New York and we received her, and we gave her everything she needed to (...) until Carmen was able to find a job (…) and then she wanted to bring her children." When Carmen Rosa brought her children, “my mom and my dad also came with the children, who were like their own children...” At that time Mérida became citizen and asked their parents as residents, and then they brought all his other children because they also became citizens, that is why the whole family is already here.
 
00:45:13 	Merida says that she has not had many friends because she has always had care of persons with which she wanted to have a close relationship. She had good friends and also others that she thought they were good but they weren't: "I've had people good, very noble that I appreciate so far" and they do still remain friends. But "I have not always had very close friends, always there has been a limit", and perhaps for this reason she has obtained what she has achieved. She thinks that friendships can exert a positive or negative influence on what one wants to achieve. Mérida has been someone who has proposed something and she has succeeded, that is the reason by what she is always saying that "if you wish it, you are able of doing it."
 
00:47:38 	Merida says that "my father always told me: It has to be you who gives the example to your brothers. If you're good, your brothers will go out good. And it seems that it is true (...) because they are all great people (...) My father is no longer with us, but my mother always have thought that I, her eldest daughter, have the last word. She tells me: daughter what you say, that's going to be." But Merida knows that everyone has their own criteria and everyone makes their own decisions.
 
00:48:53 	Merida considers that her family is very nice, although not very united, since in each family there is always something, even though they try to keep always united despite the discords that always exist in all family. 
 
00:49:42 	Merida says that "I see me as a fighter woman (...), an entrepreneur who has tried and has accomplished things (...), first at all with my children, with my spouse (because he was very different when I met him)" She considers that she has achieved things that others could not. She came, as most, with nothing, and managed the appreciation and affection of many people... "I knew a lady who was my boss, and she hugged me, cried with me, said to me her story. I said: from where? What I have (...) how people see me? (…) I know that they were seeing me as something simple, sincere... It must be that that made that that people had me that love." In the school where she worked with children, bosses did not give anyone two or three days off, but to her they did, because at that time she went to Virginia to see her dad who was very ill, "they gave me days off because I've always been punctual."
 
00:51:56 	Merida said that it was a very difficult time for her when Robert wanted to drop out of School. That was a very hard day for her. It was also very difficult to leave her job. The day that she withdrew, when she retired from job, it was very tough because she knew that he could give more, but problems with her vision made her to leave School. "I'm 74 years old and until now I think I can give much yet... That's what I think, but I don't know if I can, because the body ages but the mind is young." 
 
00:53:14 	Merida speaks a little of his brother, who is doing the interview, when they lived in Peru.
 
00:56:25 	Merida says that, when she was young, she was buying for her siblings clothes, trying always to that they were presentable, that was what she did until she came in here, she was always helping in one way or another, and "that is from what I'm proud and my boys are also."
 
00:57:02 	Merida says that here, in East Elmhurst, she has lovely neighbors, "I don't know if someday I can pay them all the favors which these people have made us." Four families are those that she has more gratitude because they have done amazing things, they are always united: those neighbors take them to the doctor when they need it, no matter where it is, and they are always in constant communication. When one of them travels out, the others are pending to help them. The district has not changed for them, while ever comes different people, but the three families that are the closest neighbors, are kept here. Merida lives here more than 30 years, as well as her neighbors. She also acknowledges that they "have helped us incredibly", and all of them "take care of the neighborhood, we are always outstanding of anything that happens" and are always united.
 
00:58:42 	Merida says that she has now an Ecuadorian doctor who is very good, but she always prefers a physician that is alien and not one Hispanic. She says that she has had bad experiences with Hispanics at a young age, since when her children were small and the pediatrician was a doctor who almost did not speak… if one asked him something, he answered with a yes, a no or he said nothing. "I said to myself: and what is this...? I said to him: the child has fever, and reluctantly he was wondering since when, what medications you are taking, and there was... Doctor can give you such a thing? The doctor responded Ok. That was all." Merida had another bad experience with a doctor who was not Hispanic, but was used to treat many Hispanic people and "it seems that because of that, he thought that all Hispanics were the same, he does not mind to answer" or staying without saying anything because "Hispanics, unfortunately, are people who do not speak English, do not questions, they do not delve more into their state of health and doctors believe that they can do whatever they want with them." Once Merida went to a neurologist with her spouse Alfonso and she began to say that his family had a story of Parkinson, and the doctor responded dismissively with an "Ok doctor." She was amazed: "Doctor you don't want to know my spouse’s medical record?" "And then he changed a little bit and said: Ok, already, yes of course, but he had answered badly before, as if he didn't need the information that I was given." 
 
01:00:59 	Merida speaks now of the lawyers. She says that here there are many poor people, when they have a problem they will see the lawyer and the lawyer treats like trash all those people: "I've been through that, but no more! (…) I never seek lawyers who are Latino because they have done incredible things to me: once we had to do a refinancing and we had not even need lawyers, but Alfonso, by language, he wanted someone who was with us, who represent us. The lawyer, what did he do? Nothing, he wanted to obtain loans (...) in which he had a commission or something. When I told him: no, we are not going for any loan, he said to me: why? Lady, you have to take advantage, they are giving you a loan (...) you can do what you want with that money... I said: doctor, we do not need that money. He said: then I won't be able to do the work. So I said: Ok then we will not do that... My spouse was annoying because he wanted to take the money (...) I said: no, we do not need that money. What will happen with that? We are going to borrow more and how many years will we have to be paying the House...? I called the Bank (...) directly and tell it: we want to do a rollover, but I need to know what I have to do. The bank already knew it because the lawyer had already applied to that same bank... it told me: yes, but you have to make the loan, and I told it: Ok, then I will not make any loan or any refinancing. It said: but wait one moment madam, there is a way in which you can do it... It was that we did not had to make any loan or had to pay six or seven thousand dollars for closing (…) I paid, I do not know if one or two percent of what we had and that was what I did. And when we went to do the procedure, lawyer arose because he wanted that we do the check what was supposed that he had won by a very few roles… The lawyer was not that day, but was his father representing him, and he made to sign us a few papers... The lawyer wanted us to give $500 to his father, and I told him: you know what? I do not have any contract with your dad. We have one with you, but not with your dad... and he claimed US $1200, and I did a check for $1200 but I did not another one for $500. Do you know what the lawyer did? He broke the check there, in front of us and in front of everyone who was there." Her spouse and her son were present there. "I said to Alfonso: you don't pay anything, not send him any check..." Alfonso sent him a check for $900. After what the lawyer had done, we don't have to have done anything. He could go to anywhere. If he had broken the check, and that would have been the evidence... Since that time Latino lawyers do not give me confidence... "
 
01:05:31 	Merida says Hispanics try to take advantage of the Hispanic people. When she calls somewhere and it is asked which language she wants to use, she doesn't choose Spanish, she asks someone to speak English, "even if my English is not perfect," and she prefer it because Hispanic people does not help... "That happened to me." She does not know if she is wrong or not, but there is a tremendous disunity and that should change: "Hispanics are people who should unite, unite more and help each other."
 
01:06:30 	Merida is proud because it has achieved things that people with more education than her have failed and all that because of her effort, by dig, by wanting to do things, "that's what I always say to people: you can do it, just have to plan big and going to achieve." She says that she may be wrong but she believes that that is very important: "having in your mind what you want to do, and it won't be today or tomorrow, but perhaps you can eventually achieve it."
 
01:07:32 	Merida says that she talked about Hispanics in a negative way because of the experience that has she has had, but she acknowledges that there are very good people that has known among them... She knows a family, Saldarriaga, where one of the children is a lawyer, the other has a good job, and they are meeting since she married Alfonso. Saldarriaga family was at her wedding and it is a very good and very humble people and they have accomplished good things with effort, "they are one of the few friends that we can tell that they are really friends." And she can also say the same thing about some people she met when she worked, they are few but she still manages to maintain that friendship "and people that I estimated." That first and foremost, "you see the sincerity, you see that people appreciate you" and "that's important, that is great." 
 
01:08:50 	Merida is now concerned about a professor that worked as her supervisor: "my work was appreciated by people because I made my work with dedication. It was not the same way as did many who sought how not to do the work (...) I made a mistake once, I know that I made a mistake... The teacher came out because there was a child to whom I had taken him out of school and I didn't have to do it... The laws had changed at the school and I had not paid attention to that (...) the supervisor came to give me the reach and she spoke to me very badly, yelled at me and all that caused grace to me... I said to myself: this lady, is she speaking that way to me? And I smiled. Of course, she bothered much for that cause and made a change in my status, in which I was working. I was soon to retire, but usually people who was going to remove they did not want to put them on a stable class because it was the year... and then I had to be put back to others. I did not like this change, and I went to tell her why he had made that change with me. She told me: you laughed when I called you care. And I said: yes, actually I laughed... It was as if I was passing through a surreal moment because nobody, nobody, has spoken to me that way, especially at work, never anyone... And she was quiet, she did not tell me anything... because I knew... I knew that I was being sincere. And so it happened that (...) when I greeted her she sometimes answered me back and sometimes not… But one day I saw her in a store (...) and (…) she told me: Mérida, and I said Ok. (…) And that was all that happened just there.”
 
01:11:53 	Merida says that she was lucky for working in sewing and she was a person that had been appreciated, esteemed because “I had a talent (...) and was working with designers, and got to work in Haute Couture, and I came to achieve very good things in that branch. One of the things that I did was dress for models, samples were for the models, and arrived to work with designers of fame (...) all that ended. Anita Pagliaro was a designer for rich people, they sent her to make their costumes and I was one of whom made those dresses, and I made up the pattern and all, and developed their dresses (...) Anyone could not make it (...) Those are good achievements, achievements that I got starting from below, from the factory, but I managed to get out of the factory (...) by my effort, because... seriously, I was well into… and what I wanted to achieve it. Walter, I started working in a factory... when immigration was going… we had to hide. All those things I have gone! And, however, I gradually got things that many people failed to (...) I think that the effort, the desire to do things, is very important."
 
01:14:21 	Merida points out that "I am a person who has accomplished a lot (...), I feel loved by my family, my children, my grandchildren, my brothers, my mother... and perhaps I can still continue, keep making things, but clearly I know it won't be easy because I am older... but yes, yes I'd do things to my family (...) And thank God I have come to live in Queens (because we lived in Brooklyn), and in Queens is where we have achieved all that, in Queens I was lucky to reach a site that my children went to a school that was very good, the 669 PS, I love it so far. My children learned there (...) and after they went to a school that was not very good at that time (and I think it is not good now), but, as they say: love is power. The boys managed to get out... They could have done much more, but sometimes things are not given... But Robert was always in the kind of honor from that school (...) He went to Brooklyn Tech, but he was very young and was disoriented because there it was the very best (...) One day he said: mom, I need a scholarship to study in this school and here I'm not going to have it (...) He knew that he was good, but he also knew that he was not the best... In part, he did well (...) Cost me working him out of Brooklyn Tech (...) because they didn't want to let it go. What an incredible! (…) But he was determined to and they had to get him out (...), he wanted to go to school here, where, at that time, Irma was still studying (...) He did it in a smart way because there he was in kind of honor and there he had the opportunity to take the scholarship because there were many boys who did not finish high school and scholarships were there (...) He got to the Hispanic Group and the Hispanic Group helped him to attain a scholarship to study in Florida." The Hispanic Group helps schools boys for getting anything they need. They gave Robert three-quarters of a scholarship and he studied that way, but his parents always had to collaborate with their education in different ways.
 
01:19:40 	Merida is happy because she achieved many things, above all for her boys, her family, "which for me they are all here, virtually... could it be more joy? (...)" There are still things I want to achieve, for example in you, I desire that you can achieve what you want, what you expect, what you need..." Those "are achievements that I'm living, that I am feeling, and I know them because my family let me know", they are Beto, Carmen, Pablito, you... What more could I ask for?
 
01:21:23 	Merida points out that "life is full of pleasant and unpleasant things, but we have to know them (...) You have to see the beginning of things (...) I perhaps would not have to do so, but I have had help... people who liked me, people who fought for helping me... For I wanted to come to school, there was a lady that helped me to get into that. She told me: Mérida, what do you want to do? And I said: well, I want to work with children, that is what I want to, and she told me: but have you worked on something like it once? I responded to her that I have not." Then, she added that "everywhere where it can be they ask for experience. But that's what I got in my head, and that was: children... When I worked with this great lady, Susan Gille, an excellent person... with her it was that I started to realize my problems with the eyes, because I worked with her on a very delicate thing. And she told me: Mérida, you are not going to be able to work on this for a long time (...) that's the reason why I began to see the reality and I started to seek new horizons."
 
01:23:13 	Somehow, Merida could tell that her way of being is more American than Peruvian, because she has learned a lot, and she knows that Peruvians, perhaps Latin Americans, do not express what they think, what they feel. "I am who I am, I like to say what I feel... I do not always have words for that (...), but somehow I let it know... The change that has occurred in me about how I was in Peru long time ago... I was a very shy child (…) my friends saw something in me since I was a child." Merida recalls her friends Luz and Alejandro... He was an engineer, and she was a girl who worked with her in her first work in Lima. "I was not at the height of them, to be honest, but they saw in me something... I was treated as a sister. I was the godmother of her first child, and he wanted a spouse for me to their level, unfortunately I was a little girl and I was not thinking about that... They always tried to help me... They saw me as if I was a sister (…) I was not a person that was higher than them and, however, they saw me... maybe that desire, perhaps this kindness, perhaps that simplicity... can be."
 
01:25:48 	Merida says that in her house "I was the Princess (...) everyone was around me... revolved around me. Everyone admired me, and I sometimes had to fear that the girls could not achieve... by imitating, by watching... they looked at me. (...) My dad always told me (...) He was like my friend (...), he never criticized me or said: you can't do this, you can't do that (…) I was a simple girl, without malice, I had no malice in my head and saw things through different eyes (...) I spent tremendous ingenuity by things, because... With Luz and Nelly… we went to La Molina University because we had friends that... to the feast of La Molina because we had friends engineers and we were going to (…) and then we did not know who could bring to us and we had to come anyway, trying to of... It was dangerous at that time, because all that was dark, La Molina (where the University were placed) was dark."
 
01:28:30 	Merida says that "when I came I, you know, that was huge because it was well painful for me and I know that for all of you too."
 
01:28:47 	Merida states that "when Irma was a little child, Irma could wear the dress that I gave her, at times she said: no, I don't like, or something... and as we didn't have much, we could not give her many choices (as it is said now), she used what I gave her. Also Robert... They grew up in a humble house because we didn't have the means to give them what they perhaps wanted to. But, yes, I always thought that my daughter is going to be this, I mean, my daughter will be able to go walking, my daughter will be able to enjoy, enjoy... that was what I wanted for her... And of course, it's different now, everything is different, because Irma for example... they can… they are professional… they can give the daughters what they could not have, something that I don't like much sometimes because it is a little far-fetched, because they... for example, giving choices to the boys... Comes David in the morning with three dresses for Victoria: Victoria what do you like? Victoria says: not, not, nor... And that does not... What I did before with Irma? What was that I said? This is the garment you're going to get and that was the cloth that she worn... Sometimes my daughter came out crying from the house because... as she was small and she was something capricious... And I told her: no honey, we have to go fast, now, now, now... and she came out crying. I left her crying at school and then I had to call the teacher for asking her how it was my daughter and she answered me that well... and the soul came back to my body again, and I already felt fine... But that was my life: running. But that was not only my life, it was the life of many people, especially working people, requiring wages in order to survive (…) Many people happened worse things than I've lived… I've had enough luck Walter, because, first of all, I had my aunt, who helped me with Irma, then I had people to whom I loved to very much and that helped me, for example, once I knew... met a Cuban lady who came to my house to stay with Robert while I went to school to pick up Irma. Robert was sick and she came and stayed with Robert, and she did it with love, not for money... She did it by helping me, as friendship... And yes, I have had people that have helped me a lot (...) and then I've also helped them, I have also given to people, I have given... what do you say…? Maybe I've not been able to help much because sometimes there was no how... but I've done some things that I am proud to have been able to make them."
