00:01:36 they lived at a farm
00:02:11 Toms River was an isolated area, with mostly chicken farms
00:02:29 next to them was a wooded track, where a woman lived named Lenny whose brother was in World War I, and always welcomed him into her house
00:03:37 around the corner of their house was what the New Jersey pinelanks is now 
00:04:57 they farm shut down when he was around 12
00:06:51 him and his mom was near the fence, which was near a wooden track, and all of sudden a pack of 7-10 dogs who were terrier size to a germen shepherd size , and jumped at the fence. 
00:07:33 the state police also set traps to rid those dogs, and traps were set on their woods too. they came to check on the traps every once in  a while . Once they came heavily armed with shot guns, due to the fact that they encountered fairly large dog. They didn’t shot any of the dogs but they did catch one.
00:08:45 both his parents were musicians, his father was a pianist, generally a musicologist, mostly through the Ukrainian community, not American.  He eventually did start a music concert kind of a thing, which continued for 18 years and he would have many different kinds of people come and play, including people who became very successful, and famous musicians. His mother was an opera singer.  
00:09:44 both his parents were really well known in their country (Ukraine). Who had to come to the United States due to the World War II. Their career as a musician in the Ukrainian community went to an end.  Finding themselves in NYC with a baby and another soon to come they were confused on what to do next. 
00:10:33 a friend who was also a musician suggested on buying a chicken farm, in New Jersey. His father didn’t know much about farming, but his mother knew a bit more, so they eventually made it.
00:12:45 they still managed to stabilize their Ukrainian culture despite living in the United States. Such as the style of their house, the pillow cases the tapestries, and Ukraine was his first language, the company his parents kept was in the Ukrainian community. His brother was a contraposed, who had a really good reputation in the Ukrainian community, before the American.  
00:14:09 the idea of class was very strong in their house but not in the American way. 1. Nobility 2.peasentry 3.intellectual class. They spoke of themselves as the intellectual class, though his father kind of thought of himself as nobility, and his thought of herself as in the peasant class. Despite all of this throughout the years he still felt isolated due to the fact his peers didn’t have the have philosophical outlook.
00:15:40 during his mid teen years he came to realize that this social life was so away from home and that his friends were just uncomfortable. Especially near his father, who was really demanding of proper kind of behavior, which wasn’t common in that area.
00:16:57 he started to feel like he didn’t belong in any group. That’s when he started to gravitate towards the arts people, and went towards the musicians. 
00:17:35 He and his brother was taught music by his father, they started learning piano at the age of 5-6. by the time he was twelve, his family started a music school. This lasted for about 15 years.  At the age of nine they started to learn string instruments. His brother chooses the violin, and he did the cello. 
00:18:20 Maria Helgur taught him cello who was famous in another place at another era, near Austria Germany, who also came here due to world war II. They were 3 sisters Maria, Greta, and Elsa. Elsa made a very successful musical career here and United States, who was the first female cellist. The other two sisters moved to a chicken farm in Fredon new jersey, and taught privately, at Wednesdays Maria went to his house and taught all the other instruments ,while his father taught piano, and his mother taught voice. 
00:21:16 he decide piano wasn’t quiet his thing so he concentrated on cello. And cello, wasn’t really looked at as a big thing. So that left him feeling isolated. He also became a runner, played basketball and a few other sports. 
00:22:26 his father sent them both to the best teachers he could find. Throughout his time in high school he realized that he didn’t make that good of a musician, because he lacked technique, and in the other hand his brother was quite good at it. His brother started doing concerts in high school and winning them and eventually got accepted to Julliard. His parents weren’t that supportive of him being something else. In his senior year when he took the Julliard entrance exam, he wasn’t accepted. He ended up going to Rodgers University, due to its variety of courses and it being cheap, and the second reason being his cousin went there.
00:30:00 he started playing base in a rock band in high school.  They were the first electric band in that area the called themselves “the invictous”. He loved it, he found was much different then classical music, unlike classical music this wasn’t as structural and rigid, and he didn’t have to strive for perfection every second. 
00:34:00 de was debating whether he should do a French major or geology or music. His cello teacher “Arnold” was never able to find his level, but in his second year he realized he was losing interest in psychology, physiology, sociology, and he started paying more attention to his cello.  
00:36:02 he got involved with the ROTC, which he joined at the beginning and a requirement which he found out later, was that you have to pass every semester for the first two years, and failing would lead to restarting the course. He started thinking about transferring. So he went to his last teacher for Julliard. Where he was told to play, she gave him a standard cellist study book at a higher level, and told him to play “popper number nine.”  This was very high register stuff. Though he tried his best he did awful. At the end of it she asked him “why do you want to be a cellist, why don’t you be a plumber?” and he walked out of there very upset.
00:41:46 one of his teachers invited him to a summer convention, where he saw Maris Isenberg play, who was a cellist, who left him at awe.  He lived in Millburn New Jersey.  The following spring he decided he wanted to study with Maris. So they went to Millburn, and he started taking classes with him. For the fall semester he decided to go to Mannes school, which was 3rd in rank of music schools. In the summer he attended a summer camp, when he got a letter from Maris Isenberg, that he got accepted to the Julliard facility, and this time he got accepted to Julliard. 
00:48:15 coming out of Rodgers, Julliard felt really different, everyone was so focused on their music and the academic expectations were very low. He was in the BS program for which required 60 credits. Meeting the academic expectation wasn’t a challenge at all. Being in Julliard he felt like just another ordinary fish in the pond, he didn’t really feel that enthusiastic about practicing all day. Eventually he decided to get involved with the student government. His brother was in the student council and he joined as a volunteer. He noted that the student body in Rodgers was really different, getting elected into the student council held a lot of significance in people’s eyes, but in Julliard there was barely any involvement in the student council. He decided to take advantage of that fact, and that fall he took a shot at running for the student body president, and he got elected.  
00:54:20 there was a Julliard dance when jazz musicians should jam, and he decided to change that and have rock and roll music instead.  So he heard Michael Kaman had a band which consisted of a few 
Julliard students, and a few outsiders. He auditioned them and they were petty terrible but he still hired them.
00:57:08 The following summer he went back to toms river to find the” the invictous” broke apart due to a fight, so he decided to make another band named “there are no trumpets,” and they turned out to be the best band around again, as fall came they fall part ways.
00:59:54 after returning to Julliard he called Michael Kaman and said that he had equipment and that he wanted to play with them if they wanted, and at some time at October their base player wasn’t available so he was called to play, but at the night of the dance the base player was there, that night one of the girls bought her boyfriend who was a producer the band the Muchoius which had a hit song called “the sluppy” , who suggested that Michael Marty(the drummer) and he should start a band without the rest of the members, and he suggested to get the two guitar player from his previous band, and that’s what happened.
01:01:30 at the next Julliard dance they all got together  and they played, and at the end of the day Marty said the he knew someone named  Bruce Turgison who was an engineer at Atlantic records. And that he was a part of a band named “the lord of the ring,” who did an audition through Bruce. At that time they were told to back when they had more stuff. So Marty called Bruce and told him about his new band and he arranged an appointment for them at the night time. So they went and auditioned 
01:04:01 their tape was taken to Armored Raegan who signed their band the following. They changed their band name to “New York rock and roll ensemble.”  They got a recording contract with the Atlantic records, starting from the beginning of December. Eventually Bruce and Adrian (another young engineer) became their managers.
01:11:15 they played at the Rockefeller’s daughter’s wedding, and many other places like that, and involvement in crowds like that got their names on magazines, etc. 
01:15:58 they did a movie in Mexico called Zakary, they toured, etc, but they barely made any money. The band lasted till 1973 then the band broke off.
01:17:00 once the band started he dropped out of Julliard, which disturbed their parents.  He knew he had no future as a cellist, no matter how much he tried he couldn’t get it right, so he dropped out
01:18:54 he met the woman he married at that time and had his first child. Eventually he went back to Julliard to finish of that last year. 
01:20:18 they did many concerts that were on the television, they did several concerts with Chicago symphony, Boston orchestra, etc.  His parents always tried to listen to the music more carefully to see if they were missing something, and searched for some meaning in the music, but never found anything significant to it, they just thought of it as bizarre.
01:23:46 on his second year of unemployment he decided to get involved with production, but nothing came out of it due to the birth of his second child.
01:25:08 by 1975 he decided to put together his own project and came up with a band called “falcon.” Who played at the beckon theater twice, but by the end of 1976 that died off. After that he jumped into a local band for a year, and that was the end of his band carrier. 
01:26:45 he started working at the airport terminal, supervising a gift shop. Their financial situation was pretty bad. His wife sent a frustration letter to blemish who waste wife of Marty who was now a television music writer. He said to come over and that they’ll get him a job.  And he had to start practicing the cello after 10 years, and started playing again for 3 years. Which lead to him slipping back into rock and roll. He met the drum player from “invictous” again who was an engineer. Through him and a fluke he made an EP, which got nowhere, due to circumstances. And that was his last musical event in his life.











