Monsignor Edward A. Ryan is the Administrator of St. Gregory the Great Church, a position he has held since his appointment in 2012. He hails from Queens where he attended Our Lady of Martyrs Grammar School. He continued his education at Cathedral College of the Immaculate Conception in Brooklyn, the Immaculate Conception Seminary, and at Iona College attaining a Master of Divinity, and Master of Science degree in Pastoral Counseling, respectively. He was ordained a priest in 1971. Apart from St. Gregory’s, he has served St. Elizabeth’s parish in Woodhaven/Ozone Park and the Queens North Vicariate. He is also a local historian and railway enthusiast with a wealth of knowledge to share. Msgr. Ryan coordinates religious studies at St. Gregory the Great School, and pays weekly visits to the second grade.

Index:

00:00		Family background and childhood.
05:00		Attending Catholic School and early experience with trains in the 1950s.
10:00		Growing up in Queens; educational development and preparing for priesthood.
15:00		Meeting his lifelong friend, Msgr. McGuirl and their school and community activities as youths.
20:00		Career.
25:00		Physical and demographic changes in the Queens neighborhood from the late 1940s to today.
30:00		Local business, employment and the Civil War in Queens.
35:00		History of the Railway system in Queens and riding the last Rockaway Rail Line train service.
40:00	Historical Long Island Railroad photographs including himself on the last Rockaway Rail line train ride viewed on the following website: Arrts-Arrchives.com. 
45:00	Historical photographs of trains in Queens and brief descriptions of photographs.
50:48	Historical photographs of Long Island Rail Road Trains, and of the Queens neighborhood on Arrts-Arrchives.com.











		










Monsignor Edward A. Ryan
St. Gregory the Great Church

Mary Gibbs:  My name is Mary Gibbs from the St. John’s Oral History Project and I am interviewing Monsignor Edward Ryan, Administrator of St. Gregory the Great Church on the church premises located at 242-20 88th Street, Bellerose, New York. 
Msgr. Ryan: 88thAvenue.
Mary Gibbs: 88th Avenue. Thank you, Father. Today is Saturday March 22, 2014. Msgr. Ryan, I thank you for interviewing with me today and I appreciate it very much. 
Msgr. Ryan: I am happy to participate.
Mary Gibbs: I would like to begin by asking you about your family background.
Msgr. Ryan: Alright. As I mentioned when you came in, I’m Queens born and bred and have lived in Queens all my life. My father was born on the Upper West Side of Manhattan, but moved to Hunter’s Point in Long Island City in 1908, just before the Queensboro Bridge opened. From there the family moved to Forest Hills in 1926, and my mother was born in Richmond Hill and came into the Ryan Family home in 1941, after my father’s mother died, and I was born in that house on Clyde Street and, ah, grew up there, so I’m a part of a long line of Queens residents. My father used to entertain me about growing up in Long Island City, and because of our proximity to the railroad in Forest Hills I always had an interest in trains.
Mary Gibbs: I, I noticed that you are an avid railway person…(laugh).    
Msgr. Ryan: You can see from the report here.
Mary Gibbs: Yes, I noticed, and can you tell me the names of your grandparents? 
Msgr. Ryan: Yes. My father’s, my father’s parents were Dennis and Sarah Ryan. They were both from County Tipperary in Ireland. My mother was Eva, short for Evangeline and William Trotter, and they had a more distant heritage in Ireland, in Canada, and in Germany. At least on my mother’s side it was a bit mixed up. The Trotter’s were from England.
Mary Gibbs: And their employment? 
Msgr. Ryan: Well, my father for all these years was an insurance investigator. He worked for an insurance company called Retail Credit that is now known as Equifax. It is really a credit rating agency. But Dad spent his time interviewing people associated with people who had applied for life insurance policies. So he would get out and around Queens County. He’d spend the first half of his day at least in the field, as he said, interviewing people. Then he would come back to his office in Jamaica and write up, ah…
Mary Gibbs: Yes.
Msgr. Ryan: …the reports. So he had a very vast and deep knowledge of Queens County and its inhabitants, and he regaled us with stories in the evening, of some of people he had encountered in his travels.
Mary Gibbs: Yes, and that was around which area? 
Msgr. Ryan: Well, he was all over Queens County. As an investigator, he had stories that he brought from really all around. When I was ordained a priest and assigned to St. Elizabeth’s Parish in Woodhaven, he said to me, “Oh, you’re going to a good parish.”  And then, he asked about the butcher, and he asked about the banker. And he knew all of these people in the neighborhood and he had stories about all of them.
Mary Gibbs: And your Mom?
Msgr. Ryan: Mom was a, a home maker until my brother and I reached high school age then she went to work for the New York Convention and Visitors Bureau. And she worked with them for a good number of years. And again, that brought her into contact with all sorts of interesting people.
Mary Gibbs: Oh yes, and your grandparents?
Msgr. Ryan: Well, my father’s father, Dennis, when he came to this country, when he came to New York City, he worked as a motorman on the Third Avenue El. He, at one point had his handle taken away from him because he had, had a minor collision with a, with a train ahead of him. I had assumed that what he had done was too, what they had called a key through a signal, where a motorman can use his signal indicator to force the tripper to go down so that he can move through slowly past the signal. But, I found out in later years that the Third Avenue El, until it was torn down in 1953, had no signals at all on its local tracks and everything was operated by sight which was an amazing thing.
Mary Gibbs: Wow.	
Msgr. Ryan: But then after that he went to the city, he went to work for the city water department, and Grandma Ryan was a homemaker. She died rather young of a heart condition. On the other side of the family, the Trotters were interesting because they worked in metallurgy and, and chemicals, and my father’s, my mother’s father actually, I think was an engineer of sorts.  But he died back in 1933 so there was a good deal of distance from his death to my birth and my mother’s mother, of course was a homemaker.

Mary Gibbs: Did your grandpa take you to his job?
Msgr. Ryan: Well, my father’s, father died when I was six months old so the only grandparents that I remember was my grandmother’s mother, and she passed away when I was seven so the contact with the grandparents was minimal. My father’s bachelor brother lived with us in the house at Forest Hills. It’s not an unusual arrangement.
Mary Gibbs: Yes.
Msgr. Ryan: In those days and I can remember when I was quite small he would walk me up, to the other side of the Austin Boulevard then up the hill. There was a pedestrian bridge there is still, at 67th Avenue across the mainline of the Long Island Rail Road, and I would be endlessly fascinated watching the trains go underneath and waving to the engineers.
Mary Gibbs: And that was in what year?
Msgr. Ryan: Oh, that would have been in the early 1950s…
Mary Gibbs: Oh…
Msgr. Ryan: Late forty, the early 1950s. And, likewise, my father, on Saturday’s used to drive me over to Morris Park and pull the car up on Atlantic Avenue alongside the lay-up yards where the locomotives were held over the weekend for the commuter traffic to start again. And they were steam locomotives because that was used then.
Mary Gibbs: Oh, yes. And you attended school in Queens. 
Msgr. Ryan: In Forest Hills. I graduated from Our Lady Queen of Martyrs, a grammar school, along with Msgr. McGuirl. We were class mates and graduated together in 1959. We had the advantage that when we were in the 5th grade and the 7th grade, we were in the front of the building on the second floor, I could see across Austin Street to the main line of the Long Island Rail Road. So we had diversions during the day watching the trains, and I think, though I may be mistaken, that the very last steam-drawn train was in operation, at least part of our semester of 5th grade. It came in with the Oyster Bay train in the morning, and then, steam operations ceased that year, and everything was turned over to diesel.
Mary Gibbs: And that was in, around 19…
Msgr. Ryan: That was around 1955, or, ‘56 I believe.
Mary Gibbs: Oh, and it was owned by who?
Msgr. Ryan: Oh, the Long Island Rail Road?
Mary Gibbs: Oh, that was the Long Island last steam…

Msgr. Ryan: Last steam train that they ran.
Mary Gibbs: Okay. Wow.
Msgr. Ryan: There was a big ceremony called, one day in the fall, Saturday, called “Farewell to Steam” and they ran a steam-drawn train out to Hicksville. I think they had troops of Boy Scouts aboard and it was sort of a bid deal, and they got to Hicksville, everybody transferred to a west-bound train that was pulled by a brand spanking new diesel locomotive, and from then on steam engines did not run on the Long Island Rail Road and revenue service any longer. It was the end of steam.
Mary Gibbs: Wow, so that is history in the making.
Msgr. Ryan: What I do remember, when I was about, I would think, two or three years old standing on the platform at the Forest Hills Station, and in those days the only big department store in Queens was Gertz’s on Jamaica, and if you didn’t go there then you had to go into Brooklyn to A&S, so you went into Manhattan to the department stores. But my father, in those years worked on Union Hall Street, so, we would, take the train at Forest Hills east and get off at Union Hall Street, stop in at Dad’s office and, go to Gertz’s. I do remember standing on the platform one day waiting for the local to pull in, and there was an eastbound train coming roaring down number two track, the express track, pulled by a steam locomotive, and it was a wonder of sound and fury and action going past. 
Mary Gibbs: And clouds of smoke?
Msgr. Ryan: Clouds of smoke and I ‘course, I had no idea where it was going, but, ah, there was so much steam action in those days on the railroad because electrification was limited on the Long Island Rail Road. They were electrified only as far east as, ah, Hicksville, I think, they had gotten to Hicksville on the main line and, and so if you were going up to Oyster Bay, or, you were going out anyway east of Hicksville, or, the southern division anywhere east of Babylon,  you rode behind steam, and so the steam trains were plenty, plus, the freight was all, and there was a good deal of freight movement on the Long Island Rail Road in those days.
Mary Gibbs: So, so it was both commuters and freight?
Msgr. Ryan: And freight, yes.
Mary Gibbs: Oh, interesting. And so you went to school in, at Catholic schools.
Msgr. Ryan: Catholic school there, and then when I graduated I went down to what was called Cathedral College in Brooklyn. It was a six-year program and when I completed that, I went out to the major seminary at Huntington for another six years to prepare for priesthood. 
Mary Gibbs: Now, what were your experience(s) like growing up in Queens, and going to school in the neighborhood, apart from the regular…
Msgr. Ryan: Oh, it was wonderful. 
Mary Gibbs: You know, sports and everything.
Msgr. Ryan: Queens was a wonderful place to grow up. It was still undergoing development in the early 1950s so that in Forest Hills there was still a lot of open spaces and that made it fine for doing all sorts of sports, and we had a lot of freedom when we were growing up. Adults just didn’t have the hands on supervision 24/7 that they have today.
Mary Gibbs: Freedom meant what?
Msgr. Ryan: Freedom meant, you came home, you changed your clothes, you did your homework, and then you did… And in the summer when you were on vacation, you had your records and you went out.
Mary Gibbs: Out where? (laugh) 
Msgr. Ryan: Out anywhere. You went out to make up your day’s entertainment, and then we would go out and bicycle ride and play ball. We would roller skate, ah, we would as we got older, explore because if you had a bicycle the world was there.
Mary Gibbs: Yes.
Msgr. Ryan: And parents, ah, it was a different world, that parents just said, “Where’re you going, we’re not going out, be back in time for dinner,” and you came back. We had no cell phones, um, we learnt to be self-reliant because if we got into a jam you had to know how to get yourself…
Mary Gibbs: Of course.
Msgr. Ryan: …out of a jam, and we learnt pretty much how to do that, and amazingly we did not get into too many jams. But when Msgr. McGuire and I were in late grammar school, in the summer, we’d get on the bikes and because we were trained a bus, ah, we would ride over to the 88th Street Gray crossing and Glendale which was manned and we would stop, and the crossing guard there would be in his shanty and we talked with him until the bell rang and then we would come out and manually lower the gates. And there was a lot of traffic on the Lower Montauk because they, they, ah, the Long Island moved equipment between Long Island City and Jamaica had a lot of freight. So there would always be something going on, or if we got bored with that then we would bicycle out, in on Metropolitan until we got to the end at Myrtle Avenue L, and that was like campus. It was the cemetery and a few old stores and fields. So we would park our bikes by the fence and, when the old gate cars came, in, they had, some of the sides were open, and when they got to the terminus at Metropolitan Avenue, the conductors would go through and switch the backs of the seats so they’d be facing towards Brooklyn for the trip back to…
Mary Gibbs: Ooh.
Msgr. Ryan: …back into Brooklyn, and we thought that was endlessly entertaining.
Mary Gibbs: Exciting.
Msgr. Ryan: Well, if it rained, we’d take ourselves to the main branch of the Queens Library which was on Parsons Boulevard those days, and we would go up to the Long Island room, and do our research on old history looking at old photographs and things. And it was a wonderful…
Mary Gibbs: So, where was that?
Msgr. Ryan: It was on Parson’s, not far from Presentation Church. It later became, to be used by the Family Courts, and I don’t know who has it now. The library built a brand new main building there on Jamaica somewhere back in, I think it was in the late 1960s on Merrick Boulevard, but they were on Parsons and the Long Island collection was up in the attic. It was wonderful, and you would go up there and say to the librarian, you know, “Show us everything you have about Forest Hills,” and you go rummaging through the old photographs, and things, ah, or, we played games, or we listened to music, because then the girls had an old wind-up comptroller in the attic, and piles of the 78 rpm records, so we played all the old Irish, that was John McCormack and Chauncey Olcott, and all that. Or, you know we went to the movies, or if you could scrape together a, a quarter, went to the ice cream parlor.  
Mary Gibbs: Sounds pretty, pretty…
Msgr. Ryan: You did all that. We had a lot of fun
Mary Gibbs: Yes, I could see that. Now, in what year was that, with you and Msgr. McGuire?
Msgr. Ryan: What year that we…
Mary Gibbs: You did grammar school, and all those exciting activities.
Msgr. Ryan: Grammar school? Yes, well, he came in at third grade. His had lived our Lady of Mercy Parish and as a youngster went to P.S. 144 for two years. Then his parents brought him over and enrolled him in Our Lady Queen of Martyrs because Our Lady of Mercy in those days did not have a school. So he came in and as faith would have it he got plopped at, it was a rare occasion, but there was an empty desk. He got plopped next, alongside me and that was the fall of 1953 so we became pals, and that has endured now for fifty…what, sixty-nine, sixty-nine…
Mary Gibbs: So what did you talk about with the Long Island person?
Msgr. Ryan: Well, there was not much that we talked about, except that we just watched the trains and we talked about…What did we talk about? I don’t remember what we talked about in those days. I think it was just watching the trains, you know.
Mary Gibbs: (Laugh) And he would operate the key, what is that? 
Msgr. Ryan: Well, Oh, that was my grandfather when he was running the train.
Mary Gibbs: Oh, it was your grandfather.
Msgr. Ryan: That was my grandfather when he was running the train. He would (inaudible) the signal. That was what a motorman did, and they still do at this side, I think.
Mary Gibbs: I see.
Msgr. Ryan: They don’t actually use the key. I think they just sort of inch forward on the triple… (inaudible). 
Mary Gibbs: (Laugh) So who was your role model? In school, in the community.
Msgr. Ryan: Well, you know, we were fortunate to both have good families, and so, you know, our dads. There was a young priest who came to Our Lady Queen of Martyrs, just, before we met each other and we were sort of pals with him, Father Michael Conroy. Ah, and then there were a couple of youth leaders. There was a thing called the Olqm Club at school, which was really an after school program back in the 1950s that had all sorts of, you could do arts and craft, get help with homework, or you played, sort of indoor sports, or we went on trips, or ah… Then, of course, we had a lot of fun when we were altar boys ‘cause we went on outings to, there was the Rye Beach boat trip in June and during Easter Week we’d go to Palisade’s Park if it is still open, and Christmas, we’d go singing at the St. George’s Hotel, and there was a big party. So there was a lot of activity around the church and different activities there. The church was very much the center of social life.
Mary Gibbs: So, did this young priest, and all the social life impact you, and had an influence on you to become a priest? 
Msgr. Ryan: Well, yes, I think it did because I early on, I became an altar boy and I was fascinated with all of that. In those days it required a bit of training because you had to memorize what seemed like endless amount of Latin, which sounded like, to us like jabberwocky, but you memorized it. And then there was a whole mystique about it, and think it was in those years that I really began to think about being a priest.
Mary Gibbs: Seriously.
Msgr. Ryan: Seriously, yes.
Mary Gibbs: You were ordained in 1971?
Msgr. Ryan: ’71.
Mary Gibbs: And, ah, you fulfilled your duties in various parishes.
Msgr. Ryan: Well, I’ve been, I’ve been in Queens all those years. I spent ten years in St. Elizabeth in Woodhaven. Then I was here from 1981 to 1991. I spent ten years here as an Associate, went back to Woodhaven at St. Elizabeth as pastor for six years. Then Bishop Daly asked me to come to work for him as the territorial Vicar for north Queens which meant I would be the coordinator for sixty-two parishes in the northern half Queens County. Which sent me to doing, ironically, all the stuff my father had done, and he would have laughed because I was out in the fields going around meeting people, finding out what was going on It was almost like an education in sociology because as you know, North Queens is such a diverse place.
Mary Gibbs: Yes.
Msgr. Ryan: And people bring a whole lot of customs and traditions, as well as, languages and foods and, things, and, ah, those four and a half years in the office were, were fascinating. I took a sabbatical for three months in Rome. When I finished that which was delightful, and, ah, when I finished that I was pastor of Our Lady of the Miraculous Medal Church in Ridgewood for ten years. And, ah, that’s a very old established neighborhood, Ridgewood is, and, a fascinating place. And then, ah, two years ago, just about two years ago, Bishop De Mage who asked me if I would come back. He was pastor because Fr. Cunningham was retiring and he thought I would do well here where I had been. So that’s been my career and it has always been in Queens.
Mary Gibbs: So, I gather, he probably saw how much you enjoyed being at St. Gregory’s the last time, so he (laugh…inaudible). 
Msgr. Ryan: Well, yes the parish, what happened here was that the parish celebrated its 75th anniversary in 2011, and they round the whole, they brought the year to a close with a mass here in November of 2011, and they asked me if I would preach the homily for that mass, and I did. So then the following March when the Bishop got hold of me, he said, “I saw how people reacted to you at the anniversary celebration and I think you would do well.” He said, “I know that it could be difficult to go back to a place, but, I want you to do it.” So, I said, “All right.”
Mary Gibbs: So, how do compare these two periods at St. Gregory’s in your personal life, the previous St. Gregory’s to today’s.
 
Msgr. Ryan: It’s an interesting thing. It’s rather like being like Rip Van Winkle, because I was away from here for twenty-one years, and while I had contact with the parish and I maintained a lot of friendships with parishioners over the years, its difficult being here on the day-to-day basis. For one thing, there is this whole addition on the rectory is new since I was here. For another thing the church was turned back-to-front in its renovation. So that is different. But more importantly the population of the neighborhood has undergone a change in twenty-one years. It was largely Irish-Italian, but mostly, Irish, when I was here before.  
Mary Gibbs: That’s on the first…
Msgr. Ryan: Here, my first time here. Those children many of them having grown up and moved on to other places, and the grownups have either passed away, or moved in with children, or they’re not here. There is still a significant continuity in that population, but it has been added by a large Pilipino population, and a very large Indian population. If you walked around the neighborhood, it has a definite Indian flavor. 
Mary Gibbs: I noticed. 
Msgr. Ryan: And many of them, of course, are not Catholic, but there is a surprising number of Indian families who are parishioners, are devoted people. So that’s the major change that I have seen, ah, when I go over to the school, I see children whose parents were in the school when I was here before, and like now I visit the second grade each week on Tuesday and there are three youngsters there, and two of them had mothers when I was here before, and one of them a father when I was here before.
Mary Gibbs: My goodness, that is like serving two generations. So, now you, just gave me, a comparison within your parish. So how about, how has the neighborhood, changed from your childhood days? 
Msgr. Ryan: Well, which neighborhood? Remember I was not…
Mary Gibbs: Queens, Forest Hills.
Msgr. Ryan: Queens has become much more built up for one thing. The empty spaces have all but disappeared under the push of development.
Mary Gibbs: Yes.
Msgr. Ryan: So, there are not lots around anymore, empty lots. That were… 
Mary Gibbs: Uh, huh, it’s all taken up?
Msgr. Ryan: That were play spaces. That’s a change. The population is vastly more ah diverse than it was when I was growing up. Queens was largely Irish, German, Italian, Jewish. Ah, there were other, now, Queens always an interesting place because, because there were a lot of Spanish there too. There, there, were, were, ah, it was a whole mixed and gather of places, of peoples. But there is a far more strong Asian presence today than there was. The Jewish population is no longer the traditional Jewish population ah that I grew up with at Forest Hills, but there tend to be a Jewish people who, the BukharinJews, or, Jews from other parts of Russia. 
Mary Gibbs: Yes. 
Msgr. Ryan: That have come and settled. But, of course, the whole way how the children grew up has changed. And I mentioned before that children today are far more supervised than structured in their …
Mary Gibbs: Oh, yes.
Msgr. Ryan: … recreational time, whereas, we were left to, our own devices and so developed a whole field of creativity in terms of inventing our own amusements, some of which, parents would have had coronaries if they had, you know. The standard dialogue was: Where you were? Out. What did you do? Nothing. Who were you with? Well, you know, John. Then the, then the questioning because parents didn’t really want to know, but we were home safe so that was, that was all so that whole structured dialogue took place. But occasionally we’d would wander off and come home late, then there was hell to play.  
Mary Gibbs: Any daring episodes you would like to share with us?
Msgr. Ryan: Well, yes, I just took off one day and walked over to Kew Gardens to Conrad’s. He was the third classmate from Queen of Martyrs who is a priest, lived over in Kew Gardens.  For whatever reason, the family was going to the movies and I didn’t want to go to the movies so I said, well I’ll walk over. And we walked, I mean we walked. We thought nothing of walking to Kew Gardens, or Richmond Hill, or anywhere.
Mary Gibbs: But that is miles, right?
Msgr. Ryan: Oh, yea, it was miles, but we walked, or, we took the bicycles, that was, but for whatever reason it wasn’t on the doorstep, because if our parents knew we went riding to the Canarsie Pier down the Belt Parkway, I had no idea what they would have done. But we had no GPS so they couldn’t track us, and we came home.
Mary Gibbs: That was a far ways off.
Msgr. Ryan: So, I think those were the major, differences in Queens. I do not think there is much of a sense of community cohesion as there was when I was growing up. Families lived in close proximity to one another, so you had, I had a lot of cousins at Queen of Martyr’s school because my mother’s family, a lot of them lived close by and they’d come up from Richmond Hill to Forest Hills and, and they were there. And that was so for other families. You had cousins in the place. And then people stayed. They didn’t move away, they stayed so you got multi-generational neighbors. 

Mary Gibbs: Yes.
Msgr. Ryan: When I was in St. Elizabeth’s there growing up there were children in the school there whose parents and grandparents who had graduated in the school. They had been there since the turn of the twentieth century.
Mary Gibbs: My goodness.
Msgr. Ryan: And they, they stayed.
Mary Gibbs: Yes.
Msgr. Ryan: And the neighborhood had the feeling, sort of, everybody knew everybody. That’s not in evidence anymore. Now, I do have to say, out of that remains here. Bellerose is a little behind the time. There is still a great deal of community cohesion of which the church is the anchor. And, ah, I used to say when you go into a parish you always presume that everybody in this parish is related to everybody else until proven otherwise. But that rule does not hold true in Bellerose because at St. Gregory’s everybody is related to everybody else. And most of them are Lydons, they are…(inaudible).
Mary Gibbs: Vast.
Msgr. Ryan: The bloodline of everybody is somehow related to the Lydons. So it’s, Lydons it, that cohesion though, was a very strong thing and it, I don’t think it is there in the way that it was before people began to scatter.
Mary Gibbs: So, how do you rate it.
Msgr. Ryan: Well, I think that was a wonderful thing to grow up in, and I know you can’t hold on to things forever. But I just tend to like the continuity and settledness, so, I would miss that.
Mary Gibbs: I know, ah, … I’m sure that your new parish, your new, the people that you attend to… 
Msgr. Ryan: Well I, I’m …
Mary Gibbs: Your new congregation.
Msgr. Ryan: Yeah.
Mary Gibbs: … the new St. Gregory’s …
Msgr. Ryan: The new population here. And then I’m doing fine with then. I’m getting to know people. It’s a danger when you go back to a parish because, you have to be careful you do not just presume you know the place which you don’t.
Mary Gibbs: Definitely, I see here, as you indicated earlier, a rail fan, and before that I think you, were conducting tours.
Msgr. Ryan: Oh, yes I used to be called upon by the Woodhaven Historical and Cultural Society. I haven’t heard from them in a while, but its seventeen years since I’m out of there. But used to, ah, take ah walking tours of Old Woodhaven. It was lots to fun. I used to explain to people by standing in front of St. Elizabeth’s Hall at the corner of Atlantic Avenue and 84th Street and point across the street and tell them that the Civil War was fought right across the street for two, for forty years before a shot was fired on the battlefield because on the other side of Atlantic Avenue was Union Course Track and every year there was always a great rivalry between horses from the South and horses from the North. And in May of every year, I think it was May, there was the favorite horse of the North pitted against the favorite horse from the South. And people would come from all over the country to attend this. And, it sort of released tensions between the two halves of the United States. They’d settle it on the, on the, race track. In 1820-something, I think that year, the race was so famous that there were enough members of Congress present to pass a bill, if they had taken a vote, plus Andrew Jackson was there. But what served the race track was the beginnings of the Long Island Rail Road, ‘cause people could come off on the ferry at Brooklyn, on the train, and get off right at the racetrack. You see.
Mary Gibbs: Wow.	
Msgr. Ryan: And Courier, or, not, most of their early lithographs were done of the races at, ah Union Course. And I think their first covered lithographs was of a race at the Union Course. But part of the Walk-e-talk would be to say, “Let’s just stop and say, well, that this was where the Civil War started, right here on this corner.
Mary Gibbs: That was indeed exciting. I never thought about that, taking the war into consideration, and, and they forgot about the war. (Laugh).
Msgr. Ryan: And then there was the great factory, Lalance and Jrosjaans, that was the enamel ware factory that took up about three, three square blocks, and they made enamel ware, and the tremendous output, so most of the neighborhood was employed by Lalance and Jrosjaans. Every year, they were Alsations, and Lalance went back to ah, Alsas, but ah Florian Jrosjaans stayed in this country. They had, they had been on Pearl Street on Manhattan, but Florian Jrojaans had his country estate in Woodhaven. He’d go out on the weekend on the train. And he had a beautiful estate, with ponds, and, and it was like a southern plantation. And then he decided, then, why should I commute to Manhattan when I could move the whole business out here. And gradually they built up a huge factory at, just on the south side of Atlantic Avenue, and they would, Florian Jrosjaans, every other year would go to Alsas and recruit workers and bring them over, and they would provide labor for the factory.  And, he built a company town. Everything was built by the factory. The houses, the stores, the fire department, the park. Even St. Elizabeth’s Church originally was built by Florian Jrojaans, one of the few Catholic parishes that was founded by a Protestant. 
Mary Gibbs: This is so fascinating. So, you, apart from being this great rail fan…
Msgr. Ryan: I’m also local history buff.
Mary Gibbs: Yes.
Msgr. Ryan: I will sit and talk to … (inaudible)… about local history.
Mary Gibbs: I would like to revisit that.
Msgr. Ryan: Yes, sure.
Mary Gibbs: Very much so. And then, more particularly, tell me, I know that you, along with your friend…
(INTERRUPTION. Someone knocks on the door). 
Msgr. Ryan: Come in.
(A person enters the room)
Msgr. Ryan: Who? Patrick? Okay, fine. Thank you. I’ll listen. You’ll leave the door open. That’s fine.
Msgr. Ryan: We were on the last train.  
Mary Gibbs: Yes, so, on the last Rockaway Rail line, Long Island Rockaway Rail line.
Msgr. Ryan: John and I used to go on summer afternoons. That was a very busy service up until 1950 because the Rockaways of course were a great resort area, and people came down from Manhattan and went down there on the weekends. And it was so busy at one point because they ran, the BMT trains came off the Jamaica Avenue well at Chestnut Street, I think, and they had a connection with the Long Island Rail Road which was on the service of Atlantic Avenue. So the subway trains would as far as the Long Island Rail Road trains, and there was a huge amount of traffic. But they crossed the Jamaica Bay on two huge old wooden trestles that were a great problem because they were such a fire, and in the winter when the bay froze, they would be knocked out of alignment. And by 1950, the railroad was in a terrible shape. It had been taken over by the Pennsylvania Railroad, so the Pennsylvania Railroad could get trackage rights in Long Island City for their new Penn Station. That’s a whole other story.
Mary Gibbs: Yes.
 Msgr. Ryan: But at any rate things were really bad by 1950, and in May 1950 there was a huge fire on the trestle. So the Long Island Railway said, “Ah, forget about it. We are not running this service anymore. It’s not what it used to be. We’re going to sell it, lock, stock and barrel to the Transit Authority of New York,” which they did. And they sold it all the way from, what’s was called the White Pot under jump where connected with the main line at Forest Hills all the way down through the Rockaway Peninsula. And, they began to rebuild, the subway did a trestle and bridges over Jamaica Bay, and by 1956, they were able to start subway service from Liberty Avenue going south to the Rockaways and that still exists. But up until 1962, the Long Island Rail Road still ran two passenger trains a day between Penn Station and Ozone Park. They had gone down originally to Hamilton Beach, but then when the connection was made in the subway, that ended in 1956, so form 1956 on, they went only as far as Ozone Park. One train went into Manhattan in the morning, and the train came out in the afternoon. And it had a certain loyal ridership.
Mary Gibbs: Yes.
Msgr. Ryan: Because it was a quick way to get in and out of Manhattan. 
Mary Gibbs: Okay.
Msgr. Ryan: So, on summer afternoons, Msgr. McGruirl and I would mosey up to the Parkside station at Metropolitan Avenue, and we would watch the evening commuter train come in. And we did that with some regularity. That would come in, it left, left Penn Station at 5:35 and so probably about 5:55 – 6 o’clock it was at Parkside, and if we ran fast enough, we’d make it home in time for dinner. But then when they announced that they were going, ah, to cease service and abandon the line we said, “No, no, we have to be on the last train.” Well, the other thing we used to do, we used to, and we walked everywhere. We used to walk over to Regal Park and we would ride the train from Rego Park to Parkside. And I think, I still have a punched ticket from that somewhere. It cost about fifteen cents. If we could scrape up fifteen cents. And most often, the conductor didn’t even conduct the fare ‘cause two kids riding from Rego Park to Parkside Avenue. 
Mary Gibbs: How old were you then?
Msgr. Ryan: We were…in our early teens, I guess, twelve, thirteen, I guess, we did that. So we decided we would ride the last train, that was going to run on June the 8th, 1962, and we were juniors in high school at that point. John was in Archbishop Molloy High School, and he had a classmate who lived in Forest Hills, Henry Sawiki, who subsequently became a, a Marist Brother. So the three of us decided we were going to take, and we took the subway into Manhattan, bought tickets and we boarded the train at Penn Station thinking that we were that we were going to get off at Parkside which would be the convenient stop. So we came along and as we came through the White Pot under jump coming off the mainline at, off the stop at Regal Park and then down, the commuters opened the champagne and started to celebrate the last trip. So we said, “Well, why should we get off while the party is going on, and, we accepted.… 

Mary Gibbs: (Laugh). 
Msgr. Ryan: …ah, paper cups of champagne and said, the hell with Parkside, and we stayed on all the way to the end of the line at Ozone Park where we subsequently got ourselves photographed a few times. There is an issue of the Pennsylvania Railroad’s historical magazine. They did two issues on the Rockaway Branch, two articles in the issues, and in the second one they had pictures of the last train at Ozone Park. And we had come, had come off and were standing on the platform, and this was taken from the opposite side, but when you look, and some, a parishioner at Miraculous… (Inaudible). And I said, ‘Holy cow a minute!” Because I was standing there. And I would show you here too. There was a picture at Metropolitan Avenue as the train was about to pull out of Parkside on its last run, and we are in, we we’re in that picture. So, ah, that was the last, the last, last train. I think we probably had enough money to get on the Woodhaven bus and then half tipsy ride back up to Forest Hills at the end of that adventure. But we saw the last, the last train.
Mary Gibbs: Can you remember what you guys were talking about?
Msgr. Ryan: Well, it was, you know, we had our cameras and we were taking pictures. And as we went through Forest Park I was leaning out taking pictures. I had just backed into the car, I got just the window, it was the old equipment and the window would slam in on us. Thank God I did not have my head out when that came down. But I don’t, you know, I don’t really remember our conversation, except that it was a very bittersweet occasion.
Mary Gibbs: Yes.
Msgr. Ryan: And we’ve lived ever since then and hoped that service would one day be restored. I don’t know if you’ve gone on to the website, Arrts Arrchives. Ah, it’s a fascinating, pictorial, ah, guide to Queens because it’s all railroad pictures and as a bonus you get you get pictures of, ah, all the places the railroad went through. So, this picture that I am talking about of us is on Arts Archives which just did, ah, three new segments. One is the Madawauk Stations, and then the Rego Park, and down to Parkside and then one beyond that down to Brooklyn Manor, and, ah...
(Inaudible words while getting up to go to the computer).
Msgr. Ryan: Take a look at…
Mary Gibbs: Yes. So you do have pictures.
Msgr. Ryan: Oh, yes. Well, they’re on here. Just one second. (Inaudible).
Mary Gibbs: So as an avid railroad person are you following the Queensway Project?
Msgr. Ryan: Oh, yes I am.
Mary Gibbs: What do you think about that?
Msgr. Ryan: Well, I certainly hope they revive service. I don’t see any need for a walkway there, but I do see need for better transportation and I think that would be accomplished, and they’ll cut off at Parkside. Here we go.
(Msgr. Ryan is now sitting in front of a computer at his desk showing me pictures of the Long Island Rail Road on the Arrts Arrchives website). 
Mary Gibbs: So there is the QueensWay Trust, the Friends of QueensWay and the Trust for Public Land.
Msgr. Ryan: Yes, I am not terribly happy about all of that, and I’d much rather see it restored to rail service.
Mary Gibbs: Okay. Isn’t that so you’re an advocate of the railroad service.
Msgr. Ryan: Oh, the railroad service. See this is how it looked when we were growing up. That’s the Rockaway Branch coming off the under jump and running South. It was like being in the country. 
Mary Gibbs: It is.
Msgr. Ryan: You were six miles from Long Island City. There’s the milestone. See.
Mary Gibbs: Oh, my goodness.
Msgr. Ryan: And these are the old days, but here’s Fleet Street when we were growing up. Oh, there’s a rail fan trip, before the service stopped in ’62. And look at this. I would assume they had turned the third rail off ‘cause they are letting everybody run all over the tracks here.  Those are Budd cars so they are self-propelled.
Mary Gibbs: Oh, they are. So the people at the side there. 
Msgr. Ryan: These are all rail fans.
Mary Gibbs: Isn’t it dangerous like to be at the side there?
Msgr. Ryan: Well, it should be if the, if the third raid was energized.
Mary Gibbs: Oh.
Msgr. Ryan: That was Fleet Street when John and I were growing up. That’s 1954, and this was the pig farm over here. There was a man who raised pigs. 
Mary Gibbs: My goodness.
Msgr. Ryan: Now let’s see. Okay, Parkside, Parkside, Parkside…Here we go. There’s a train coming into Parkside in the 1940s, and this train is going into Manhattan. You see.
Mary Gibbs: Yes.
Msgr. Ryan: Van de Vere’s dairy farm is still here. Those are the people going to Rockaway on that platform.
Mary Gibbs: Wow.
Msgr. Ryan: And this is the train coming in, going into Manhattan.
Mary Gibbs: Mmmm.
Msgr. Ryan: This, it looked a little bit bereft in the 1954 picture. This is after the trestle fire and you could see the station houses dilapidated. 
Mary Gibbs: Oh, yes.
Msgr. Ryan: Then, another one like that. This was what Metropolitan Avenue looked like. This was the station at Metropolitan. You can’t see it here, but, Van de Vere’s farm is still over here, I think, that’s where we would go. Now, let’s see. Okay in the later day…they tore down one south bound platform, and they, they put up one track and put up cinders down and put a temporary station.
Mary Gibbs: So we’re looking at…
Msgr. Ryan: We’re looking at trains going south.
Mary Gibbs: From?
Msgr. Ryan: From Penn Station. It’s come from Penn, its going down to Ozone Park. But they took out one track and built this low level platform across it. And here we are. Now, this is the train that has stopped at Parkside station and it’s beginning its run over Metropolitan, and it is on its way to Ozone Park. If you look at the, at these boys here… 
Mary Gibbs: They are…
Msgr. Ryan: Hanging out...
Mary Gibbs: ...hanging out of the window
Msgr. Ryan: That was us, you’re looking at, that’s me, I think.
Mary Gibbs: Oh, that’s you!
Msgr. Ryan: And that’s John McGuirl and Henry Sawiki. But that was us in the lead car hanging out the window in the lead car hanging out the windows.
Mary Gibbs: This is the last ride?
Msgr. Ryan: That’s the last ride.
Mary Gibbs: It is.
Msgr. Ryan: That’s June the 8th, 1962. And we got caught, they must be somebody standing on the tracks here taking ah photos and there’s, and see there’s the motorman walking around to see if anybody still standing on the tracks, and he is going to leave and go on to, ah…
Mary Gibbs: This is certainly historic.
Msgr. Ryan: Oh, it’s wonderful. And you’ll see all sorts of pictures in the Arrts Archive.
Mary Gibbs: This is a gold mine here.
Msgr. Ryan: That’s the old wooden trestle that the train ran across ‘til they the day service closed. It was a wonder it didn’t collapse. It was all wood going over the Montauk Branch. 
Mary Gibbs: It is wooden, yes,
Msgr. Ryan: It was.
Mary Gibbs: I could see it. Yes.
Msgr. Ryan: See it? 
Mary Gibbs: Yes
Msgr. Ryan: I think John walked over that. I don’t think I ever did with him. But look at it, eh? That was like the Old West.
Mary Gibbs: Yes, yes.
Msgr. Ryan: Look, see that’s…
Mary Gibbs: No wonder you want it to be reestablished.
Msgr. Ryan: Established safely. There’s a steam locomotive going underneath on the Montauk division.
Mary Gibbs: And who is that person standing…
Msgr. Ryan: He is the brakeman, I think, or he’s a railroad official.
Mary Gibbs: Oh.
Msgr. Ryan: This is the Montauk division. 
Mary Gibbs: Okay.
Msgr. Ryan: And this is the old Rockaway division up here, see.
Mary Gibbs: So that is a steam train?
Msgr. Ryan: That’s a steam, he is on the tender at the back there. The locomotive is ahead of him.
Mary Gibbs: Alright.
Msgr. Ryan: But you can see, ah, wonderful old pictures of Queens. (inaudible)
Mary Gibbs: These are great pictures you’ve got here, very clear.
Msgr. Ryan: They, they’re wonderful and I get all interested with this stuff, see. So, this is what it looked like after it was abandoned. 
Mary Gibbs: Mmm.
Msgr. Ryan: Very sad. But at any rate, that’s it.
Mary Gibbs: So, you have, like, um, your entire life has been around the railroad system.
Msgr. Ryan: (coughs) Oh, indeed it has been, yes.
Mary Gibbs: And I know that you, like said, you, you would like to see it reinstated.
Msgr. Ryan: Oh, I would very much like it. I hope I live to get to ride the first train.
Mary Gibbs: I hope you, you get your wish.
Msgr. Ryan: (laugh) That would be something to be on the first train and the last train. But I don’t know.
Mary Gibbs: I, I certainly do, and thank you so much for sharing.
Msgr. Ryan: Okay, okay, I have to move on to other things. 
Mary Gibbs: Thank you, again.
Msgr. Ryan: But someday you’ll come back and we’ll talk more about other things, and, ah…
Mary Gibbs: I will, I will.
Msgr. Ryan: I can, ah, I can…
Mary Gibbs: I really do appreciate your sharing with us. 
Msgr. Ryan: This is from LaLance and Jrojaans. This is what they made. The factory in Woodhaven. And you could always tell…

Mary Gibbs: What is, what is that?
Msgr. Ryan: These, these were all the things we used then. Coffee pots… 
Mary Gibbs: Oh.
Msgr. Ryan: …and our know platters, and you can tell because they always have their thing, L&G.
Mary Gibbs: Oh.
Msgr. Ryan: So, if you don’t see that, it’s not the real stuff. I have…
Mary Gibbs: But, it, it looks almost brand new.
Msgr. Ryan: It does look brand new, but it’s very old. People don’t use coffee pots like this anymore.  
Mary Gibbs: (Laugh) Thank you, again, Msgr. Ryan, for sharing.
