00:00 - 01:48	Carmen reflects on the reasons and motivations to come to the United States upon finding herself unable to find employment in Peru, after returning from Venezuela, where she was working for some time. Work was scarce in Peru and because Carmen had to provide for her two children: Carol and Alfredo, she decided to make the trip to the U.S. to try her luck and provide for her family, in spite of her suffering for leaving her two children behind. 

01:48 - 6:21 Carmen explains there were no preparations for the trip, that everything happened in a sudden manner. She had a young cousin who had expressed interest in making the trip as well so both decided to leave Peru together. 

03:00 - 
At the time, there was an airline called TEXA which flew all throughout South America. They made several stops before arriving in the U.S. First they stopped in Ecuador, and later in Colombia where they transferred to a Panama bound flight. But to make this transfer they had to go from Bogota to Medellin by bus. They were thoroughly searched at the Panama airport precisely because they were coming from Colombia. They stayed in the country for a few days. 

4:22 - The next stop on the trip was Costa Rica, followed by Guatemala, where they took another bus bound to Mexico, DF. Hosted by a friend of Carmen’s sister-in-law, they stayed a few days in Mexico as well. From there, they left toward Nogales. Once in Nogales, they had to seek someone who would smuggle them through the U.S - Mexico border. They stayed at a hotel nearby until they could find that person.  

5:45 - 6:20 Carmen explains that their search was useless, and that the way they were able to finally get in touch with a “pollero” was through the hotel receptionist who asked the travelers if they were looking to “go north”. When they answered “yes” he told them the next group was leaving within the next half hour and that they could join if they wanted to. 

6:20 - Instructed to leave their belongings behind, even their passports, Carmen and her cousin joined the group. They were taken to a site that had a big hole on a wall filled with pipes. These pipes were not big enough that you could walk inside them. Rather, people had to crawl. Carmen tells that they probably crawled for some twenty minutes, which to her seemed like a whole day’s length of time. 

7:11 - This passage, Carmen recalls, was a horrifying experience. It was pitch dark so Carmen could not see who was in front or in the back of her, and there were rats, which they could only feel making their way through the pipes. Carmen says she thought of turning back at some point during this journey but what made her change her mind was thinking about the others. There was no choice but to keep going, until they came out to a park. 

7:45 - The “pollero” left the group waiting to go find a car so he could transport everyone to their destinations. They stayed in the house of a relative of one of the group’s members. Carmen was now on United States land, the Nogales on the Arizona side. 

8:13 - Carmen describes it was the first days of January and that she had no idea how cold the United States could get. The man who hosted them said the group could stay in the garage which was an icebox. There was a bed where Carmen slept with her cousin. Together they kept each other warm. They were shivering from the icing temperatures. 

9:00 - It was so cold in the garage that when the host checked up on his guests the next day first thing in the morning, he asked them “are you alive?”. He then sent them to his son’s house where they could shower. Carmen told the man’s son that she had a sister who could send her money to buy a ticket to New York.  

9:30 - Carmen is grateful to this day for her sister’s generosity during that time of transition. She and her husband sent money to fly both Carmen and her cousin to New York. The man’s son took the women to the airport. Carmen expresses she felt as if she were blind for not speaking a word of English. 

10:00 - Once at the airport, a couple directed the women to the gate for the New York flight, which would stop in Dallas first. Carmen tells how she and her cousin unaware that they had transfer to another plane at the Dallas Airport, remained seated in the same plane until the cleaning crew pointed out they should have left.  

11:00 - 11:20 Carmen arrived to the La Guardia Airport, where her sister and her sister’s husband picked her up. 

11:27 How did you feel while you were making this journey? 

11:27 - 12:20 Carmen says it was painful to arrive in the States because she had anticipated she would be sent back. Once she had arrived, she couldn’t believe it and her first thought was “when will I see my children again?” Only then did it really dawn on her that she had left her kids behind. She felt immense sadness. 

12:20 -  Thankfully, Carmen’s sister-in-law was able to get Carmen a job at a sweatshop. That’s how she started in the States. 

12:35 - 13:20 What did you imagine when you said you wanted to get back to your children? 
Carmen knew she had to do everything in her power to bring her kids to the States. That there was no turning back. She would support them until she was able to bring them to her side. That was all that was on her mind. 

13:25 Let’s talk about your first days here in New York
13:25 - 14:20 Carmen talks about how sad her first days were in the U.S, especially because she kept thinking about her children, wondering when she would see them again. Also, she had never experienced such cold weather because it’s never that cold in Perú. She thought to herself she’d stay a couple of years and end up going back to her children. She’d never be able to resist such frigid temperatures. 

14:25 - 18:36 How did you start working? 
Carmen explains she started working at a sweatshop. Her job consisted on “trimming” clothing pieces and any other tasks assigned to her as needed. With time, Carmen was able to move out on her own, as she was initially living with her sister. Later on she was introduced to a Colombian woman who offered her a room in her apartment and in turn introduced her to other women who worked in a showroom, manufacturing designer dresses. They told her she should go work with them as a sample maker. That weekend, Carmen went to her sister’s house and asked her to show her how to use the sewing machine. She had no experience as a seamstress. She recalls her sister laughing at her. However, with the women’s support and having developed good rapport with Mr. Novak, her boss who trusted she’d learn quickly because she was young (Carmen was 27 at the time), Carmen learned from the designer and her colleagues and this is how Carmen started her career as a sample maker. 

18:36 - 20:40 How was your relationship with your coworkers? 
Carmen says she’s always had amicable work relationships because she was always willing to help others, specially because the majority of her coworkers were also Latino, from all over. The sweatshop environment, on the other hand, was very restricted. The workers had hardly any time or opportunity to develop friendships since the working pace demanded all of their attention. And when there was no work, Mr. Xu would send everyone home. The Chinese workers were the fastest therefore Carmen and the other Latino workers were expected to keep up the speed. 

20:40 - 21:30 Were you during these times afraid of immigration? 
Carmen explains she was fearful of ICE at all times. That she learned to be on the lookout as soon as she arrived. She heard stories of raids at sweatshops and knew exactly what to do in case ICE showed up at work. She’d either run or say she was Puerto Rican. 

21:30 - What would have happened if immigration showed up at work? 
Carmen looks back and reflects on really not knowing what could have happened for sure but being certain that she might have gotten deported on the spot. And even when she had wished to go back to Perú and reunite with her children, she had realized she could do so much more here in the U.S. than back in Perú.. It’d be best, she thought, for all of us to be here in the States than back home starving. 

 22:25 - 24:00 Did you develop friendships with your neighbors in Jackson Heights?
Carmen mentions her neighbors were rather distant but that she and her brother Jorge had many friends who would visit them often. Jorge had migrated to the U.S. in a similar fashion; making several stops along the way, just as Carmen had done, although she is not sure Jorge crawled his way across the border through park pipes. He did though, stop in El Salvador, where he experienced that country’s civil war. Carmen was one of three siblings. 

24:00 - 29:02 On encountering her sibling Jorge in the U.S 
Walter, Carmen and Jorge, Jorge had a wife and was pregnant. Jorge and Carmen bought a house together and rented a room so they could pay the mortgage. Carmen came with Piera, a cousin. Both became closer because of the passage. Piera then went to live with her aunt and sister. Carmen recalls the bad and good things of those first days in the US. She says mostly everything was good because she had family around. The saddest was not having her kids around. She had a good friend called Zoila, who was 20 years older. She was diagnosed with colon cancer and Carmen does not know whether she’s still alive. Fabiola was another good friend. She was the assistant to the designer at work. Among men, she recalls having only one good friendship with Walter. And then talks about romantic relationships. Richard became Carmen’s husband, She met him at a club in Manhattan, one night Carmen went out with coworkers. Richard married Carmen and in that way helped her adjust her legal status and bring her children over to the U.S. 

29:07 - 32:01 Carmen lived in Queens for 9 years. She talks about her life in Queens as good specially because she never had to learn the language. She didn’t think it was necessary. Richard only spoke English and he was the only reason Carmen felt she needed to learn. Other than that, there was no reason to do it. And even when the language barrier could have been an impediment for the relationship to blossom, Carmen and Richard kept seeing each other. They used gestures to communicate and Carmen mostly listened. Upon her sister’s insistence, Carmen registered at FIT. She wanted to be a fashion designer. However, she never finished a degree because she became pregnant with her daughter Vanessa. 

32:01 - 34:36 Richard used to work in Manhattan and only spent the weekends at Carmen’s. His parents were not aware he had married Carmen. He claimed that if they were to find out, they would disown him. So he never told them. Later on, Carmen tells, he developed a condition that impeded him to have sexual relations with her. He became impotent and after consulting several specialists  determined he would not be able to satisfy Carmen and expressed to her he didn’t mind if she found a sexual partner. Carmen didn’t take this well and decided to go to Perú for some time. She didn’t tell Richard when she came back but when he finally visited her, she asked him for a divorce. 

34:36 - 37:25 On Carmen’s other relationship 
The other person sort of sneaked into Carmen’s life. She didn’t really love him. But she thought he would be a good father to her children. They were to stay together if and when Carmen’s children approved of him. And they did. Carmen didn’t really have a relationship with her children while they were separated because when she left them, they were very young. They couldn’t possibly grasp what was happening. They were being raised by their grandmother. Carmen remembered them as toddlers and Carmen was surprised to see them looking so different after 4 years apart. It was Carmen’s most beautiful moment to see her children once again. But they didn’t really remember her. They knew about her mom only through photos and grandma’s stories. 

37:25 Life in Queens
Carmen tells about Queens. She had everything she needed there. Queens was her life. She then compares Peru and Queens. Peru was the best time of her life. She was a young working woman coming of age, with lots of friends and few responsibilities. What she’d earn, she’d spend on her and her parents. 

39:40 - 40:41 Carmen shares that the teenage years are the best. Everything is taken for granted and one must not work for anything since everything is coming from one’s parents. Or at least one believes it must be that way. 

40:41 - 43:15 On maturing: Carmen matured suddenly she says, when she lost her husband. She had everything and then it was all taken from her. She had felt as if she had been pushed off a cliff suddenly as she was standing at the highest point. This feeling was not comparable to fearing ICE, she expresses because even though she knew there was always a chance at being caught undocumented, it wasn’t real to her. It was like a myth because she never experienced it. 

43:15 - 44:05 Was there or was there not a difference between living a life as an undocumented/documented person? 
Carmen recalls the kind of stuff one couldn’t do if one was an undocumented person living in the United States. One was not being able to fly outside of the U.S. and the other was not being able to file taxes. So whether you had or didn’t have legal documents to live in the States did make a difference. Also, being documented provided better job opportunities. 

44:15 - 45:30 “It’s so much what you have lived and so little what you can tell” 
Carmen tells about this precise moment in time when she’s probably the happiest. She has found a good man to share a life with. She compares him to Lucho, her deceased husband, only this “Lucho” has money. Carmen says he’s probably a gift from God.

45:30 - 47:12 On transitioning to Virginia 
Carmen shares that the family decided to move to Virginia right about the time Alfredo was due to enter middle school. The family owned an apartment there, which they had bought for investment purposes. And because Virginia’s lifestyle was more laid back and things were slower, it would be a better environment to grow in for the children, specially right about this time when Alfredo was entering puberty. 

47:12 - 51:40 On comparing lifestyles: Queens vs. Virginia 
As an older person, Carmen considered life in Queens pretty calm but not for her children. She didn’t like the New York environment for them. Things were happening too soon here. She recalls that when she visited what would be Alfredo’s middle school in Queens she had observed young teenage girls covered in make-up. She had also heard there were drugs being passed around inside the schools. She was afraid for her children. And she didn’t stop to think these problems were not unique to the United States or New York City. She reaffirms though she believed them to be less serious back then when she moved to Virginia. It would be easier to have more control over her children in Virginia, she thought. Her children were picked up from the house and dropped off at school every day by the school bus. And at the school, and in Virginia in general, children were better behaved and less troublesome. This was not a big city. It was more like a town, so the kids were not bad kids. The majority of the town’s people were white, anglo-saxon looking, and there weren’t any restaurants that served foods other than traditional American. It was later on that people of other backgrounds started to move to the town. 

51:41 - 53:45 On the kids of the town 
Carmen knew all of the kids who lived in the building her family moved to in Virginia. Not all of them were white Americans. There were Muslim and African kids, immigrant kids who came from hard-working households, as Carmen’s. And it was when the family moved to Virginia that Carmen started speaking more English. Her husband influenced the family’s decision to move as well. His business of installing air conditioner had failed in New York and because he had family in Virginia, he wanted to try his luck there. 

53:50 - 58:23 Carmen’s children suffered at first because they didn’t know the language. However, they learned within months even when Carmen herself couldn’t help them. She explains that even when her English proficiency was limited as she attended school, she had no issues understanding the material since fashion design is very hands-on and methodical. It also helped that she was working as a sample maker at the time. 

58:23 - 1:00:38 Carmen tells about her children and how they learned English. She figures that because they arrived to elementary school and were advanced academically, they didn’t need much support. She refers to the United States education as more limited and less stringent compared to the education in Perú, whereas, at least in high school, everyone is mandated to pass a determined set of courses to graduate. In the United States, you can pick and choose. 

1:00:38 On bringing parent to the United States 
Carmen’s parents were Carmen’s children’s parents in her absence. This is the reason why she wanted to bring grandma and grandpa to the United States. Her children knew her as a mother but they were not used to her so Carmen thought it would be best to have her parents around while the children got used to living next to their mother. Otherwise, for them it would have been like living with a stranger. Carol and Alfredo came as residents and the grandparents came accompanying the children on tourist visas. Later on Carmen’s sister became a citizen and claimed both parents so they could become residents as well 

1:02:01 - 1:03:19 On the hardships of accomplishing all of this 
Carmen expresses she is sharing the most transcending moments, which she believes are the most important. Time, she says, makes the mind choose the things it wants to keep. She is happy to have let the sad moments go, and that she can only remember the best moments.

1:03:22 - 1:06:22 Prompted to share the difficult memories, Carmen talks about her failed marriage with the father of her last child, Vanessa. He was an alcoholic who led her to bankruptcy, and who became an ogre after having made her believe he was a good person. She says he changed after her children arrived. Carmen’s parents did not like him at all and she hardly had any relationship with his family, whom he only saw during social gatherings. 

1:06:22 - 1:08:14 Carmen goes on to share she only put up with Fernando, her former abusive husband, because she heavily relied on him for financial support. But when she was determined to leave him. She resolved to work two jobs in order to support her parents and children in Virginia. 

1:08:14 On children assimilating 
Carmen speaks of her children adapting to New York and then to Virginia. The New York - Virginia transition was easier than the Peru - United States one. And they actually liked Virginia more. They developed more friendships as they had more time to do so, and felt more independent overall since they no longer had to rely on grandma and grandpa for school drop-offs and pick-ups. 