Wilson Salto is an Ecuadorian immigrant that has been living in the United States for fifteen years. This oral history depicts his story of living in the United States. Wilson goes onto to discuss various issues within the United States and its sizable immigrant population. He talk about the cultural and education levels of immigrants and the multicultural lifestyle that Queens presented to him once he arrived in his new country.
00:00:21: 	Wilson discusses briefly that his experience in Queens has been a mixed range of emotion discusses the importance of education as a way to succeed in the United States. Moreover he talks about the necessity to understand the mutliculturalness of New York and what ethnicities get along and which do not. 
00:01:12	Wilson discusses his life back in Ecuador before coming to the United States. He states that the reason for coming to the United States was not because of economic reason, like most immigrants, but because of a number of personal issues.  He worked in the hotel and texile industry in Ecuador but he felt limited as a person in Ecuador and chose to come to the United States
00:02:05	Wilson discusses the fact that his expectations of living in the United States has changed for a number of reasons. He discusses the fact that Ecuador uses the American dollar so it was unique as an immigrant.  When he came here there were a lot of immigrants already in New York and the social competition was very high. He had to change his plans and future career. 
00:03:20	He discusses the fact that the transition into the United States was far easier for him because Ecuador uses the same type of money as the United States. He talks about the money change in Ecuador and how the shift to dollars affected the economy in Ecuador. Specifically the weight that a dollar had in Ecuador compared to the United States.
00:04:00             He discusses how it was worth coming to the United States even if it was a changing atmosphere and that he had to adapt too many things while in the United States 
00:04:47	He discusses how each person has a function in the world, especially immigrants to the United States. He says that immigrants are the backbone of many economies especially in the United States
00:05:49	He discusses the differences between an immigrant and a natural born citizen. He says that the differences are minimal specifically the fact that immigrants chose to come here while those who are born here don’t have the same vision that an immigrant has. 	
00:07:07	Wilson discusses how he feels that 90 percent of immigrants all share the same vision of coming to the United States to work and earn a better life. The rest of immigrants come here for an adventure and to get to know the culture of the United States 
00:08:08	Wilson gets into detail about why he decided to come to the United States. He starts his story with his graduation of high school in Ecuador. He wanted to continue studying but could not afford to study. When he came here the currency had changed and it became difficult to go to school in Ecuador. He decided to come here to pursue his ambitions in education. 
00:09:57	Wilson talks about what his idea of the United States was prior to immigrating here. He based his impression of the United States on the news which only dictated the worst part of the country. He says that his idea of the United States was wrong because he thought it would be more dangerous.
00:11:13	Wilson discusses the numerous ethnicities that live in his neighborhood and how this effected his life as an immigrant in the United States. He basis his answer on the level of education of immigrants and how this effects there social standing. He discusses the fact that Queens is more diverse than other parts of New York City. 
00:15:58	Wilson discusses the difference in English that he learned in Ecuador with the English spoke in NYC. He tells the story of getting lost on the train and having to ask for directions from a native New Yorker. It inspired him to better his English.
00:19:13	He discusses his neighborhood and his ability to befriend other Latinos but he could also get along with other ethnicities. He says that Ridgewood is very egalitarian. He says that Ridgewood is mostly Latin.
00:20:30	He discusses his relationship with his neighbors and that he does not really associate with many of them 
00:21:00	He describes Ridgewood as the healthiest neighborhood compared to the other places he has lived in New York. 
00:22:40	He discusses the most memorable moments while living in Ridgewood. He talks about a nearby park and how people of the neighborhood would play volleyball in the park. 
00:25:30	He discusses the importance of maintaining the cultural presence of Ecuador and of Latin American culture. Although it is important to keep your own culture, living here is a chance to see other cultures and languages.  He also discusses the way his culture has been lost here and how traditional dress has been dropped in preference for American style clothing. 
00:33:12	Wilson discusses the various reasons why life in the United States is different from life in Ecuador. His mains points are on family life and traditions. 
00:38:33	He discusses the issues that could be fixed within the neighborhood, specifically the high rise in rent. He believes that the local government should stop rent raises and maintain a better neighborhood. 
00:39:40	He discusses his primary fears of living in Ridgewood. He states that his primary fear is that of security, and being able to commute to work and family more effectively. 
00:43:48	Wilson discusses the differences between working and living in Queens than Manhattan. He discusses the rate of pay and why the majority of people prefer Manhattan, rather than Queens. He also discusses the distance that influences people to commute to Manhattan. 
00:45:52	Wilson is asked if it is difficult for immigrants that recently arrive in the United States would face a harder time getting a good job. He feels that people have the decision to improve their living and bettering themselves while in the United States. 
00:47:55	He discusses how Ridgewood as a neighborhood is able to help in the improvement of immigrants. He believes that as a neighborhood it is good for immigrants but that to better oneself is through their work and job. 
00: 50:20	He discusses the changing political and economic environment in the United States. He feels that the political situation does not affect Ridgewood because the power immigrants have in the economy and culture of the United States. 
00:51:19	He discusses his personal views on the political situation in the United States, specifically the new president. He discusses the exploitation of the people by the executive branch of the government. 
00:53:00	He discusses how the political environment will affect the neighborhood, specifically Muslim people who have been targeted. He has an emphasis on the fact that all Americans are immigrants. 
00:54:49	He discusses that there are two Americas, one that elected the president and the other who wants the best for their country and the world. He speaks about small groups joining together but do not unite with other groups in a mass movement for change. He feels that that difference is the biggest obstacle for unity. 
00:56:00	He says that the political situation has not changed his view points and goals in life. He knows he should be more careful about what he says and what he does, but that Trump will not prevent him from living his life and becoming fruitful. 
00:59:22	He ends the interview with a description of how he feels about living in the United States and in Ecuador. He discusses his thoughts about immigrants and how they view the United States as a way to improve themselves and grow as a person. He feels that his experiences have helped shaped him to become who he is and helped him realize how life in the United States was in reality. 
01:01:01	His final advice is to not trust anyone , to always have confidence in yourself, work hard and be able to adapt to new thing s and to over everything trust yourself. 




