Miguel Sanchez lives in Woodside, Queens. He is an Ecuadorian illegal alien and this is not his real name. He had come to this country because his girlfriend came first and he wanted to join her. He traveled in a fisherman boat from Ecuador to Guatemala, then to Mexico and after, crossing the desert, to the United States of America. The trip was tougher and longer. In New York he could not get back with his girlfriend because nothing was the same. Here he lives with his siblings since the beginning. Miguel’s story is an exemplar path in which immigrants are searching the American Dream although he did not want it initially, and it is too a sample of how is his way of life in this country to which he had never thought to come because he did not need to come.

00.00.33 	Miguel Sanchez is from Azogues, Cuenca, Ecuador. When he was 17 years old, he had a girlfriend that decided to come into the United States and that motivated him to come in also (it was the year of 2005). Thus, two weeks after she traveled, Miguel followed her. Frist, he got the money from his siblings who were already living here. They also looked for a "contact" (coyote) so Miguel traveled with this contact… In two weeks the required documentation was list and also the money. He was ready for the trip. Miguel did not know in that time what type of city was New York... The trip lasted three months. From his home town he went to Guayaquil and there he boarded a fishing boat that took him to Guatemala in eight days. The boat was small and very uncomfortable, and many anxious people were in it, people who also wanted to reach the United States… The boat was freshly painted. Fresh paint with strong smell of fish were horrible... Soon, after departure, a tank of gas of the part of the "kitchen" exploded. People became so much afraid: many cried, others shouted and some became sick. Miguel himself was bad for two days and, since then, he pretended to be sick for sleeping with the crew, at the top of the boat because, that place, was more comfortable... He had never experienced all that, because he was from a very small town called Monjas ("Nuns") which was located far from the city. In Monjas all the settlers knew among themselves and they all were like family... Miguel not only was surprised of what he saw in the trip, but also of what he heard and the stories that the people told him. 
 
00:04:46 	In Guatemala Miguel was two weeks before he directed to the border and walk two days in a desert to get Mexico. From the Mexican border a trailer took him to Puebla. But in the travel the trailer was overturned, and that would have been the end for Miguel: The trailer was going at high speed, when bending a curve somewhat passed, it slipped and was embedded in a stone. Miguel says that if the trailer had turned over, it had gone straight to an abyss that was straight ahead. He believes that he saved his life due to a miracle and he thanks God because no one suffered serious wounds, but a person that had the arm crossed by a stick... After three months he arrived to New York, being the month of February. Weather was very cold and was snowing, but everything was quiet. That was the city where he came and until that moment he never imagined how was going to live.
 
00: 07:19 	From Puebla Miguel came to the USA border, it was perhaps Texas or Arizona (he seems to recall that it was Arizona) and after he was taken to Los Angeles... He crossed the desert in five days and five nights. Each of the people that were crossing it with him, wore a bag of plastic for metering in it during the cold nights, it was supposed that there they had to sleep in it, but inside the bag they were sweating, they wetted and felt colder. Everyone got up at midnight with the purpose of jogging for warming up a little... There was no food there. Miguel did not worry for that because he didn't feel hungry, but there were people who wanted to eat and they informed it to the contact or coyote, demanding him for food. Miguel only wanted to get to a hot place where he would not feel fear that immigration could arrive at any moment... In Los Angeles he was two weeks, then a coyote gave him a credential and an airplane ticket to New York.
 
00: 09:39 	In New York airport three of his siblings were waiting for him and they took him home. Three days passed and one of his brothers went to play soccer, Miguel also went, but he hurt a knee playing. Miguel was hospitalized for two days. When he returned to their siblings’ house, the pain of the knee was so strong that it was plastered. After a week he had the foot extremely swollen. A brother led him to a person that knew of bones and he was healed. Three months took the healing process, during that time he did not work and his siblings helped him in all.
 
00:11:20 	When Miguel found a job, at that moment he began to give money that his siblings gave him for coming (almost twenty thousand dollars), plus money for food and rent. Miguel restricted so much in expenses and he was working in two different places at the same time. In his free day he washed his clothes and he remained at home. 
 
00:12:20 	During two years Miguel was paying the debt until he ended it up, then he started to buy what he needed, as clothing, and began taking English classes in two places. Miguel knew a lot of people there: good and bad ones, the last ones led him by the wrong road, but he knew how to be out of it, if he would not do it he would be now in any gang or perhaps in jail. The good ones still continue being his friends.
 
00:13:30 	People who were at school together with him, went there only for conquering women and taking them to their homes. They also had vices like playing pool, taking liquor on weekends, going to parties and using drugs. He never did anything like that... His friends also had tattoos, put earrings, and pressured him to do the same, so he had an earring under his lips, but he lasted using it only one week because he didn't like it and he felt embarrassed to get home like that... His brothers have never been part of a gang, they did not have tattoos and they have not gotten into negative activities. For Miguel those were gone moments.
 
00: 15:20 	Miguel says that he has his life -or his fate-, under control now. He says that nobody can manipulate him to do something that he does not want to only for being part of a group or center of attention. He recognizes that life in New York has changed him very much… He arrived to this city when he was 18 years and now he is almost thirty. In those twelve years he has too much learned in relation to live alone, being responsible, searching and fighting for what he wants… Miguel says that he always has the forehead high, he thinks that only with effort and work he can improve. If Miguel would stay in his house saying himself: you want money, a car and phone, but if he does not come out to work, then he can get nothing of what he has proposed... There are people who live in a negative way, saying that there is no work because they are perhaps very comfortable, they want easy things who come to their hands or touch them at the door ("I don't like to say that they are idle"), but he says that that has not happened to him, in all his life here he has never been without work, he has always worked... Miguel has gone through five works, in one he lasted almost five years, on the other lasted four years and he has always been good and has done the best that he could in them... Although, perhaps, they do not gave him all what Miguel wanted, but instead he gave them all what he could and he has always been responsible for what he has been doing.
 
00:18:20 	Miguel has always liked to be inquisitive... When a co-worker knew he was going to English classes, this friend advised him to take GED. He did not know what it was, his mate explained to him this and led Miguel to the center where he could get GED. Thus, in 2009, the two guys began to study. His friend could not continue studying because he had familiar problems, but Miguel took GED. He had only studied primary in his native country. GED is equivalent of high school and he had to learn everything because he knew nothing. It took time, but it was worth... In GED he met a teacher who was very good (the students called him "El Ortiz"), he was Dominican, and a very good teacher, he gave him support and said to him that "education takes very far and makes him more responsible in all, and (…) you can remove everything from your life less education (what we have in mind)." The master gave him self-esteem books and novels. Since then Miguel was fascinated with novels. That teacher taught him to move always forward, to set himself goals and to do what he has proposed.
 
00:22:38 	Miguel wanted to go to College, then he worked hard for that and got it, although his first attempts failed due to his poor knowledge of English, but he was recommended an 8 am to 12 pm daily intensive program only for English... He says that he has never been conformist, he always dedicated himself all what could to be one of the best. He was studying English two semesters, then he began College. It was good. Those were times of very little sleeping, but now he can view the results and realize that it was all worth. Miguel always spent his time on something useful... He completed two years at College and has an Associate in English and Literature. Now he studies journalism, lacking a year and a half to complete it. He is not complaining about English now because he can write and read it well, but there are still some things that he does not understand and has to look up its meaning on a dictionary or on Google, but this time English is more quiet and soft, he can already read, analyze and criticize. All what he studied has been useful for him.
 
00:27:01 	Miguel feels himself a different person now, he says that "one learns with age", because experiences are accumulating, and one is knowing different points of view. If he had not undertaken the road in which he is now, he thinks that things would be different: "while one ignores what is happening, one is comfortable, but if we know what happens around us, one begins to ask questions, and to see other people critically." Miguel says that companions of school or work can criticize or influence him in different ways. He states that education is important and challenging (although "sometimes it's better not knowing"). He is busy all the time, he almost does not have free days and he sees his brothers or family members lying on bed or watching TV. Miguel dedicated free days to do his homework, to go to school, to meet with people. He is always trying to be productive... Sometimes he envies his brothers, and he would like to be like them, but that is only when he has bad days, the rest of the time "I'm always happy and thank God to be able to work and study." Now he is focused on being a Journalist and finishing his studies.
 
00:30:53 	Miguel encountered very difficult to study in College and, after, at the University by the competition that exists in them. He considers that "is more difficult when you have English as second language by the fear that someone may laugh if you pronounced wrong any word, or one could inhibit by the Spanish accent." He says that that were more at College because now things were different for him: "now it doesn't interest me what people think of me." He believes that the most important thing for him is to think, to understand and to assimilate things he is living or studying.
 
00:32:40 	Miguel, here in New York, had no feared of being deported because "I've always been cautious, I have always been on good terms with everyone, I've never been going to pubs on weekends, to be drunk or smoking." And "until now I does not have fear" while Donald Trump is President because what can he do to him? "I am paying my taxes, I am not living free here." He says that if one takes into account that he has contributed to the national economy, it will be fine, if not, it would be the same. "I have never been arrested, police never stopped me. I am not afraid of being deported”, "If I am deported, I will say 'thank you' because I have a free return to my country."
 
00:34:40 	Miguel lives in Woodside. The neighborhood is quiet: "when I arrived, twelve years ago, it had much Latino." At that time there was a pub where were many gangs made problems." One night they killed two people and the pub was shut down. Police guarded all that sector, but not because it was bad… of course "weekends you could not walk freely." He says that when he came, the district was already calm. Sometimes he get in to his house at 1 am (from work) and others at 4 am (when goes with his friends for a beer), and it has never happened anything bad to him. Now white people and Chinese are coming, there are many constructions, it is expanding the Middle School because the number of children has increased considerably and, if there is no room there, they would have to go to Jackson Heights or Astoria. "The place, overall, is developing well and you are safe, there are no problems." 
 
00:37:02 	Miguel says that Queens is not a bad place for living, it all depends where are you going, whom is going with you and where you are because not all places are the same. "In fact, Queens is quiet. Sometimes I come to Roosevelt and I think I am in Azogues, Ecuador." He believes that if one is bad, people is also going to be bad with one, but if is one is walking quiet, if makes nothing to anybody, then there is nothing to fear of. “It is true that there are provocateurs, there are dangerous people”, but "I don't think that Queens is dangerous."
 
00:38:33 	Miguel says that immigrants are here because "we want to be better, to give the best for our family and to be responsible." Many negative things it is saying now about immigrants: "that we take away jobs, we are bad people, we bring in bad influences to the United States. Of course, there are god and bad people, but I think that there are more honest people that works hard, that want to improve and do not want to give to their children the life that they had, but a better life (for example, my brother)." Miguel says that he knows cases in which people have been here for 15 or 20 years and they have not returned to their country and they did not return because they want the best for their children. Miguel says that, unfortunately, to fulfill their dreams, some of them never return home, never come to see their families, "they return only in their coffins." Young people also come here with the goal of improving themselves, for helping their families, "for example, young like me" who wants to improve and to get a family one day and to be able to give them the best. "I would work hard to give a good life to my children, to my family." 
 
00:41:40 	Miguel says that immigrants are more united, that they are like a family. He says that everyone wants to have their own family, supports them and gets the company of some girl that does not care if you have money or if you live in a luxurious place. Immigrant "whenever we are, we help and support each other." 
 
00:42:14 	Miguel says that immigrants that have worked with him, they have been always good workers, "of course, there are some to whom do not care about their work, who are not responsible, that are lazy and call the boss frequently saying that they are sick, they leave weekends and do not go back to work the following day." He thinks that they have chosen the easy life, that they do not know what they want. He says that when you're young you don't matter responsibility, and at the end consequences come: "there are some who are still in High School and they already have children." They are not prepared and they bring to life human beings to whom they don't know if they will maintain them. In immigrant world there are all kind of people, "it all depends on from where they come in, who they are with and who they join together with." 
 
00:44:45 	Miguel says that it may be Latin Americans are not supportive and united, "we are not like Bangladeshi people which are attached: they join together in groups of five or six and have a quote of $500 every month, then they put that money into a bank with the name of all of them, and after four or five years, when they have a big capital, open a business for one of them, and they do it until everyone has their own business." Hispanics are not equal, maybe they are united within the family, but does not rely on other people. "I think that we do not trust in each other, perhaps because before we have been played badly." Now Miguel recounts us the case of a person that he knew: that person did not buy clothes, did not drink a beer (or bought cheaper beers and took them to his house), while all the money that he earned he sent to Ecuador. Then, the time came when he wanted to go to the Ecuador because, according to his calculations, he already had enough money, money that he had sent on behalf of his brother and his mom, "he called and asked them how much money he had and they said that there was no money: the same brother told him that he had never sent money." Miguel points out that this is an example of the reasons by which arises the suspicion among Spanish immigrants. "If that happens between brothers, now imagine you how he could rely on someone that is known just a year: one cannot know to a person in a year." Everybody shows a face when is seeking favors and... Chinese says that we have three faces: the good one, the one that we are performing and the real face. There is no confidence: Latinos distrust among us. But in my family all goes well: I've lent money to my brother and he has returned it to me, just as my brothers have given me money and I have returned it. "We do not have saved together to put a business, but I think that we could do it, we have not still arrived to that point, but we trust among us." Miguel says that when Latin American speaks of money everybody begins to shy away: "money separates us and also many other things." He says that he knows of a person that wanted to buy a house in Ecuador and was sending money with that end, his wife bought the house and then she went to live in it with her lover, and "the man that was here, that worked all his life for saving the money, he remained without nothing." 
 
00: 51.27 	Miguel says has not always happened good things to him: "I think that things pass because one wants to." The circumstances create that one thing happens, he does not think that things come by itself alone. He says that, yes, sometimes he have had bad moments and he was perhaps irresponsible or didn't do things right. Once he was ran out of the job: “I was there five years and in the first four years I gave everything I could, but when one is stable becomes comfortable and that is bad. When I didn't want to go to work, I called the boss, not always but I did it: one year I did it three times and the last time I was not accepted and I was ran out because I was irresponsible.” That day, instead of going to the work, he went to a party. "I thought that the work was mine (…) that was by pride, I thought that as I had much time working there I could do what I wanted, and then they give me a kick by my back…" Miguel manifest that in a love relationship things are equal: he has a spouse and he feels comfortable, not takes her to eat or not brings her flowers, not says her words that she likes to listen, "after that, the relationship is finished, the confidence will not be the same."  He adds that it can happen in business because if a person is not aware that employees can steal, business is going down, sinks, and he thinks that the best employee can do it. Miguel thinks that if you feel good, comfortable and not act positively on the job, in a relationship, in a business that is negative: "if one does not already put more interest, things are collapsing." And that is what you deserve in a job if you are an irresponsible... 
 
00:56:50 	Miguel says very clearly: "I believe that romance only occurs when you have money, have a car, live in a penthouse: this is now the new romance." He thinks that romance, speaking of the feeling that you can inspire to the heart, it does not exist, at least not in this society, but perhaps it could exist in others places where the people is not so influenced by technology. People say that they fall in love, but Miguel thinks that they are only “looking for benefit." So when there is no benefit things are no longer the same. The romance that exists here, he hasn't found to be like is in his native town. He has never felt in love here. “I came here following my girlfriend, I was that time in love and she was all for me, she was my first love.” In this country he has have some girlfriends, "I came out with many girls (…) but nothing similar to that: now all is just by benefit." He thinks that "girls are now only seeking for someone who brings a truck, dresses well, has a good job and can give them what they want." He says that in our times Valentine day has become a simple business, that day is no longer romantic. "Now, while the gift is bigger more you are loved." 
 
01:00:57 	Miguel says that his girlfriend came in to this country with one coyote and he came with another one, and they found here in New York, but things were not already as before. His girlfriend was one year younger than him and she came with her parents who took her to the High School. In Ecuador she was living in the same neighborhood as him, but here, in this city, she met other environment, her life changed as well her way of thinking and she knew more people, "perhaps too many guys." When she and Miguel tried to start dating here, it was not the same and her parents were against him: her father always hated him, her father did not want that someone of the neighborhood where they had lived in Ecuador were his daughter’s consort. "She is now married to a Guatemalan man, and they have a daughter.” He does not know much of her life, but occasionally, when he goes to any folk town party, there is she and her husband there, and “as we are of the same neighborhood, there are always people that know her life and they tells me.” 
 
01:02:39 	People from Miguel’s district of origin meet from time to time because they celebrate traditional holidays of their place of origin. In each district there is a sacred image that they held every year and here people encounter to celebrate a party. Miguel’s people are very religious and pass holidays well although town is rather small, but in the parties are food, drink and dance... Here in folk parties, food is the same that in native people: boiled and fried chicken, baked pork, corn, cheese, potatoes and salad. In this country, festivities cannot ate guinea pig as in Ecuador because it cannot be brought often, of course that where Miguel lived the guinea pig was a typical dish for the most important events (confirmation, first communion, christening, marriage). 
 
01:04:57 	Miguel emphasizes that there are many Ecuadorian people that do not want to return at home town because they have lived here so long and have formed a family. Of course that he has known people that have returned but they did not accustom and got back to this country, borrowing money to do so. Miguel tells us that when one lives here, works and earns money, those are already a custom, returning to his own country after that and did not find the same thing it is a big problem. He says that when he goes to his country, he will return with a visa or he will go to another country, but "already I will not follow the road that take illegals for coming, not because I have fear, but because I would like to do something more direct, less complicated, because coming by the road that I took before is too hard." 
 
01:06:34 	Miguel points out that now he has one European girlfriend and perhaps he will go to her country. They are writing between them frequently. They have already known themselves for almost six years and relationship is going well: "I feel myself more connected with her, as far as I have been with any girl in this country." He has confidence, and something says him that that person herself is worthy. “I've always gone with my instincts and my instincts tell me now that this is a good thing." Miguel does not fear a fiasco now. He says that he cannot have a fiasco because he is not a little boy, a teenager, because "I am already going to be thirty years old and I can take a fiasco more maturely." He thinks that all things happen by some reason, and that if anything has to happen, then it will not be a problem for him. 
 
01:08:22 	Miguel says that in Ecuador he had a very good way of living (talking economically), and had much freedom. He was the only man in the family there because all his siblings were in this country. They "wanted that I stayed there, and they sent money." Miguel had enough money for going out for a walk, buying things and a brother bought a car that Miguel was driving and took his parents for a walk around the city, and he also used it to get out with his friends. He was a teenager then, at that age "one wants to go out, to have fun and does not think in anything else." That is what he did. Miguel had a girlfriend who loved very much, and he had his sibling’s money. He was missing nothing. He points out that his girlfriend motivated him for coming to this country and the change was very hard for him: that is the kind of things that “one can do for love." But if he would have to live all that now, with all the experience he has, he would ask her: for what reason is she going to another country? If her parents want to carry her out, well he would say that they needed to go together because first “we are going to marry us", he would say her that they are going to start a business, that “we are going to live together", that he wants to expend his whole life with her, he would want a family and then "everything would be very different”, but at the time when he was fully in love, “I don't know what I was thinking, the only thing I wanted was to be with her”, and that is for him true love.  
 
01:11:50 	Miguel emphasizes that "I'd like to return to my country, but now I am studying, I want to surpass myself, I will stay two more years until I finish my studies. I have a bit of money saved (...) I have my own house in Ecuador, then I have where to live there: now life would be better for me, smooth, I could find a better job, perhaps I could do something with my studies." He points out that right now he could go, but he has nothing yet, he has not any proof that he was at the University: two years is nothing there, but with over four years, with a Bachelor's degree, it would be different... "If I want to be a journalist in Ecuador, I have to finish a course of six months there” and only with that he can be what he wants. In Ecuador "I must learn the new system and how working there and follow its rules." 
 
01:13:25 	Miguel says that "here there is much competition, although I think that that is good." He manifests that here there are many Latinos that can help if you want to do good things… "It could be as this interview: someone talks to me about his life and that is then published in a newspaper, he could tell the reasons why he is here or why he did not return to his country." 
 
01:14:34 	Miguel points out that "in life there are always risks that we cannot escape. Life is not easy.” He says that we always have to follow what life deserve to us, we need to continue fighting and not let that the time pass over. Life and problems are always going to be there and it all depends of us how we are going to see life or how we will overcome problems that life present us. “One must be increasingly better all the time, and we cannot expect that anyone comes and changes our life, one should go outside and change our lives ourselves. And if you can make a positive path is better, it is better if you are immigrant, and you give a good example to people or to other immigrants (...) we are all equal, no matter who we are or where you come from, we must support each other."
