My name is Carlos Sanclementi.  I am the owner of this place [Astoria Billiards].  I bought it in 2004, that’s to say about seven years ago.  For 25 years I worked in an American import and export company.  When I left, I took some vacation then bought this place.  Twenty-five years I was there.  I was the supervisor of one of the departments.  It was a relative of my wife, he was the owner here.  He had got a bit tired and didn’t want to carry on.  So he said, “Carlos, how about you buy the business from me,” and I said, “Sure.”  My wife agreed.   I’m from Cali in Colombia.  I came to the states in ’66.  I don’t go back to Colombia much because now I don’t have many relatives there.  But I’m thinking of making a trip because I have a few properties, a few houses there.  There’s an agency that looks after them, and given it’s now eight years since I’ve been I want to see how they are.  I want to see if everything they say they are doing in their letters, they are really doing!  The best thing about working here is that no-one is managing me.  I manage myself.  I make the decisions myself – and my wife as well of course because we work together.  It’s much better than when I worked for 25 years hearing “Carlos, can you do this for me, Carlos, you have to do that.”  This guy [standing nearby] is waiting for me so I can play a game of billiards with him.  Whenever the clients come and there’s no-one for them to play with, they play with me.  Because if not, they wouldn’t come back!  My wife is always there working behind the bar and I am in the office – I don’t know anything about what she does, and nor she about what I do.    We open at two in the afternoon and never know when we’re going to close.  If there are five tables playing at two in the morning, I can’t go and tell them to leave – because they wouldn’t come back.  We have two shifts, one from two to ten pm and one from then till we close.  One of my wife’s sisters and a friend come to do the night shifts.    For the most part the clients are American and Mexicans as well.  And yes, there are some who come every day - every day to play. 