I represent assembly district no 36, which covers Astoria and part of Long Island City. I legislate in Albany for the people of Astoria.  My constituencies - who I consider my bosses - live here in my district.  And what my job entails is going to Albany and ensuring that their interests are accounted for, and that I advocate for them. There’s a myriad of issues in a district like Astoria, that’s very multi-ethnic, very multi-cultural.    It’s always been a growing community.  Traditionally it was a community of immigrants.  Many immigrants came here, like the Irish, and the Italians and the Greeks.  Now the new immigrants tend to have Latino backgrounds, or Asia-Pacific backgrounds.  It’s always been a place where middle class people have come to raise their families and you know, just look for the American dream.  I’m a typical story.  My parents brought me here when I was six months old, we emigrated from Greece.  We lived in a one bedroom apartment, my brother, my parents and I, and you know I used to sleep on a cot in the living room, because you know they were just two hard-working people.  My Dad always worked at a delicatessen.  Then at some point he bought the delicatessen and eventually bought a home in Astoria.  I went through the public school system here, through college and Law School.  I went to elementary school at PS17, right by Athens Square Park before there was really an Athens Square Park.  And I went to Greek afternoon school actually not that far from there at St Demetrious.  Being of Greek background my parents always instilled in me that you should know your culture and your roots.  So five days a week after normal school I went to Greek school!   That’s what a lot of children of Greek immigrant parents did, and they still do, even the second generation.  Growing up I didn’t really appreciate what my parents were doing, which was ensuring that I understood the language and spoke the language, and knew the culture.  You know growing up you don’t want to go to two schools, have no time to play with your friends, watch television, all the things kids usually do.  It was about 20 years later that I truly appreciated the fact that my parents had really forced me to…I mean I’d always had to excel in English school too!  I mean if I got a ninety-five on a test and not a hundred my mom would sit there and ask why I didn’t get a hundred!  She instilled in me my best.  She knew I had the capacity and she wanted me to live up to it.  My parents’ mentality was like ‘we come here and we worked very hard to give you guy’s opportunities.”  - So typical American story.  I appreciate particularly the values that my parents instilled in me.  I like to call them the immigrant values, of a very hard work-ethic, of always keeping your word, and always giving back to your community.  My parents always worked seven days a week.  My mother was involved in the PTA, in our local church, everything.  I grew up always believing that it was my responsibility, no matter how far I got ahead, to always give back to the community.  I’ve actually been involved in local community issues since I was in high school, like raising money for our local senior centers, or orphanages, a lot of different things.  When I got to High School I started working for the New York City council in their office of oversight and investigations.  I did things like analyze how the MTA spends our money, the fact that train speedometers weren’t working, looking into the sale of lottery tickets to underage minors etc.  All these issues that really made me understand how government can change things.  After my time at the city council, the former speaker of the council Peter Vallone Senior, who happens to have been the council member for my district, offered me a job to be his local district representative.  That was a wonderful way to really meet people.  And you know I was doing that in college.  And not just in college, I did it in law school too. His son ran for the city council seat here and I ran his first campaign.  That was in 2001.    Before that, actually the very first campaign I really became involved in was the former Assembly member’s race, ten years ago.  So for me it’s particularly meaningful that I sit here, in the office he sat in.  I don’t want to say that it was a dream because I never thought that I would run for the seat.  Because I’m sure that you know that Albany seats in New York City are like a cheap one-bedroom on the Upper East Side.  It doesn’t happen!  Or if it does happen, it doesn’t happen often at all.    Our senator [George Onorato] who represented all these districts – Astoria, Woodside, Ravenswood etc., retired, and so former Assembly member Michael Gianaris ran for the New York State senate seat, which left this seat open.  I was very lucky to have his support, and also of the other elected officials in this area, and even more importantly, of my family and friends and my community.  I was a member of community board 1 for nine years; I was on the board of the united community civic association, very active with them.  For young people in government I think you can kind of split them up into two.  There are the ones who want to run for office and are very aggressive about it.  And there are the ones who take it as ‘ok, well I would like to be in public service and if I can serve the people in an elected capacity great.  If not, I’d just like to be involved.  I was always in that latter group.  You never know what happens.  I always lived in this community, but went to law school, worked in the federal court system for a bit, and then I went into private practice, but always being tied to my local community – and to the political structure, like I’ve been a member of the local Democratic Party for years. Not that I came from a political family.  I came from a family of two immigrants who came to this country with two suitcases in their hands.  You do have a lot of politicians who are born into that scene.  So I think it’s a particularly interesting thing that I was able to accomplish.  The other thing is being a woman.  In the state legislature currently, 23% of the senate and assembly room, i.e. 23% of the legislature, are women.  And actually we are about to lose one senior member of the Queens delegation who was serving since the 70s, she’s retired.  And then one was nominated to become director of the OSG (basically the State’s landlord), and so if the senate confirms her she’s out the door.  I’m sad to lose her as a colleague like that; she’s been a fabulous resource to me as a young woman coming into government.  And there are talks about some others of the women moving on.  It’s wonderful how welcoming the other women in the senate have been to new arrivals.  You would think there might be some kind of rivalry but absolutely not.  I haven’t felt it at all.   We constantly go to dinner together, to lunch together; they’re always offering their services to me. I mean I’ve got two challenges.  First, being a new member, and then second being a woman.  Being a new member – I think in any government position – you have to learn the written rules and then even more complicated is the set of unwritten rules.  To actually understand how to get something done, you’re not going to read it in any rulebook.  You have to develop relationships and understand how to move something through the assembly.  I was very proud that within 12 weeks of starting I was able to pass my first bill.  It was a judiciary issue – to make it easier for litigants to dismiss their cases without getting intervention from the court which makes it a lot more expensive from them, so basically to open up the court system to litigants who don’t have money to hire attorneys.  Everybody was commenting on how fast I did it. I’ll be honest with you my colleagues really helped me.  Aside from my predecessor, who has been my mentor since I was a kid, kind of telling me what I needed to do, the whole assembly, especially the women, sat me down and just offered their advice.  There are 99 fellow assembly members sitting in the conference that I participate in, the democratic conference.  There are scattered women and the rest are men!  I’m used to it having worked in commercial litigation in my former profession.  It’s no different to that.  When you get to a certain level with respect to women in the law, a lot of them don’t find the balance to be able to do it and actually have families.  In the Assembly it’s a lot of travelling.  I usually leave on a Monday, and I return back on Wednesday or Thursday.  I don’t’ have any children yet but I can imagine how difficult it is for young women who have children.  A colleague of mine Grace Meng, she’s remarkable, she’s got two young boys and I’m in awe of how she does it.  The trick is to have a very supportive family structure.  She has it, and she’s able to do it.  I have another colleague who’s also tremendous, who’s been in the assembly for 10 years, and she’s got 2 boys and a girl.  Sometimes she has to go home and come back in one evening because she doesn’t want to be away from home.  Sometimes also people convince themselves they can’t do it.  I found that with a lot of my colleagues that were practicing law.  When they reached a certain level and were either ready to have a family or have a second child they just didn’t think that there was a way to balance it all.  I feel that people are very accepting of it now.  But you have to make your own set of rules and you have to make it work for you.  I hope I am successful and people can see that it can be done.  I do plan on having a family as well; I’ve been married for six years.  My husband has been tremendous - the most supportive person in the world.  Everyone asks me how my husband’s taking it and I’m like “honestly, he gets more excited about it than I do!’  I get home and I just don’t want to talk about Albany and he is very engaged.  That’s the key to it.  The hardest thing is waking up on Mondays and having to drive 155 miles.  Especially getting to the point when you get onto the throughway and there’s traffic!  I’m very used to utilizing every minute of my day.  So the fact I have to be sitting in my car so long driving…I have found very productive ways to use that time.  I listen to books on tape, and now I have a system in my car where I can take calls hands-free.  And what I’ve also been doing is recording my notes and listening to them in my car. I’ve always filled up my time.  When I worked in law I would be in my practice till literally two or three in the morning.  The hours are really no different – it’s just that I’m at community events now rather than sitting behind a desk.  Nonetheless the hours are grueling.  I enjoy the camaraderie.  I enjoy setting forth a goal, getting a bill passed that will help small businesses, for example.  That’s a major issue for me because small businesses are the backbone of our local economy.  They employ so many of our residents and they add so much revenue to New York State, and being the daughter of former small business owners I want to make sure that New York State is a friendly state for them, for the small businesses.    One example of the challenges: We have a lot of eating establishments in Astoria.  We have issues with the health departments that come up with new regulations and then decide to site restaurant owners or food establishments based on a promulgation that was made literally the day before.  I’ve actually written a bill and got a lot of bi-partisan support, support through NY State, that would prevent them from enforcing a new regulation for 60 days and then they’d have to also give the businesses written notice of the new regulation.  So if it means you have to install a sink.  I’ve patronized the same restaurants since I was a kid.  There’s a pizza store, Grand Avenue Pizza, on 30th Ave and 35th Streets.  It’s one of my favorite establishments.  The owner was telling this story that the Dept. of Health fined him 1400 dollars because he was displaying pizza with meat outside of a refrigerator.  He’d been doing that for years.  It was a brand new regulation that came out.    Of course, the department has to regulate this stuff.  But they gave him no notice.  It cost him $10,000, because he had to buy the $7000 refrigerator.  Pay $3000 to open the door to put the refrigerator in; because he was so anxious to get it in and didn’t know the timeframe, he just bought it from the first vendor.  He was worried about his license getting revoked.  So all in all it cost 10,000, plus the fine.  Then it also affected his rating.  He asked specifically does this also relate to pizza with vegetables on it.  They said no.   I bet next year they will come up with a regulation saying the veggie pizza has to be there too.  They have every right in the world to do this, they should be protecting our health, but it’s unfair to fine somebody on a new regulation and not give them time to comply.  All the businesses that I patronize always want to make sure they comply with every regulation.   I’m also concerned to ensure we have strong laws protecting tenants.  There are a lot of tenants here and there are a lot of things that have happened in the past couple of years that are not fair to tenants – the law is currently unfairly biased towards landlords.  Children’s health too - one of the first bills I authored was a bill banning toxic toys in daycare centers.  The reason the issue came up was that I was at a daycare center while I was campaigning in the summer and I saw that half the markers said non-toxic and the other half were these industrial markers – which a three year old could put in their mouth.  The big challenge as a new legislator is understanding how Albany works.  How do you get a bill passed?  Sure, you write it, but the how do you get it passed.    Particularly the leadership in the assembly and particularly the women in the assembly have been so generous with their time, and their willingness to share their institutional knowledge. You can also work to change the system too.  I was very happy to be asked to be put on a committee to steer the way that the assembly would be going.  That’s an honor for me as a freshman to be put on that committee.  Something we know we need to be doing is making it more accessible to the public - making it more open.  There’s a cry, a need for that.   In March because of the budget I was there four days a week. But typically from Jan through June I’m there three days a week.  I come home to the district Thursday, Friday and weekends.  I’m always working through the weekends because that’s when the majority of the community events happen.  In July we are in the district fulltime until we go back for the legislative session in January.     