Frances Tabaco Molina and Angelina Tabaco Moore is long-term resident living in Bellerose, Queens. In this interview, Frances and Angelina spoke about her family life, their childhood living in Bellerose, Queens and their experience in the Philippines. Their Filipino culture and traditions played a major role in their family; it taught Frances, Angelina, and their siblings about adulthood. Frances and Angelina discusses about the hardships that they faced in Bellerose, Queens and how they managed to overcome it together as a Filipino family.  

00:01:10	Angelina and Frances’ father applied for a job for Philippine in the United Nations. Their father was the first Filipino in the Philippines to hire in the United Nations. One day, their mother followed their father back then by herself and she had a hard time adjusting in America because she didn’t know English and didn’t know where to go. Her mother told her that the only time she was scared was when she thought that she was never going to meet their father at the airport in 1947, but eventually she did meet him.
00:03:47	Angelina and Frances’ father was a teacher in Malena before he got the job for the UN. He was also a Carpenter in Bohol. One of his other jobs consist him helping out an American family before, that also when he found out about the job for the UN. 
00:04:46	when the family moved in to America, they stayed at a house with their siblings: Joey, Joanne, Robbie, and Alex in Newark Park, Queens. Her father, however, stayed at an apartment for employees back then. 
00:07:08	back then, when Angelina and Frances were growing up, their father used bring home a few Filipino friends and tried to entertain them by throwing parties. Their parents were really strict; when their father looked at them with intent, they knew immediately that there were people coming over.
00:08:29	while Angelina and Frances were growing up, they weren’t allowed to go out and have fun unless it is with their family. They remember the time when they went to Jones Beach with their father. Their mother used to stay home back then taking care of Gale, one of their sisters, until when she was 1 year old. When Angelina and Frances used to be home alone with their siblings, the girls in the family would have to take care of the boys in the family like making them food, cleaning the house, and do the chores. They did this because it is a Filipino tradition that they had to follow; they lived in the way that a regular Filipino would have lived like.
00:10:45	Back then, there were no Filipino in the area that they lived in. They couldn’t associate with any Filipino back then because their father’s friends, who he brought over, didn’t have any kids. When they used to go to the Philippines back then during the summer time, they used to live with the grandmother’s house. Normally, they leave the Philippines the week before school starts. 
00:12:08	Angelina and Frances remembers going to the Philippines for their first time when they were 5-6 years old. They remember feeding the chickens and they remember that their parents were really strict at home. When they were in the Philippines, since there were so many of them and their siblings, certain people were also watching them and making sure that they were okay. 
00:13:08	they were remember riding a boat from New York to San Francisco and they took pictures at the Golden Gate Bridge. They also remember taking the plane to the Philippines. 
00:15:08	The games that they used to play back then was similar to baseball, however, the game was originated from the Philippines and they brought to New York and they used to play it at Newark Park. They used to play this board game that originate from the Philippines called Sonja; they used to play that game a lot more than chess and checkers. 
00:16:49	back then, they used to play games, but not as much. Angelina and Frances used to sing a lot back then. Their brothers played the guitar back then. Their family used to also sing a lot of popular songs together like ‘planting rice’, Filipino song. Their father used to play the Ukulele. 
00:17:56	their father loved music, but their mother wasn’t really much of a fan of it. Their mother used to be always in the kitchen when they were home; she was always busy cooking for the family and taking care of the kids. Their mother didn’t even watch TV with them when their father allowed them to watch TV. They used to watch TV shows like Superman and Batman. While the girls were watching something, when their brothers wanted to watch something as well, they usually change the show that they like to watch. 
00:20:15	they used to go to a church called Lady of the Snow. Her sister, Esther, bought their parent’s house. Her father had a garden in the back yard, and they used to go help him harvest and plant the flowers sometimes. 
00:21:00	basically, all of them basically grew up together because they had no cousins living in America. They hung out together most of the time; they even had friends at their block as well. 
00:23:30	they went to school in the Philippine for one year when they were 1st or 2nd grade in 1966. The most difficult thing that they faced while going to school in the Philippines was the language barrier. When they try to speak English, other Filipinos laugh at them, but they still helped them out because they understood the communication problem. 
00:28:33	they celebrated their first Christmas at the Philippines. There was no snow; it was very humid there. Their cousin cut their Christmas tree because Angelina and Frances always kept asking where the Christmas tree is. Their mother bought gifts for them and they used to have Christmas Carols singing in front of their house. They are thankful for Christmas now when they live in America because they tell their kids that in other countries, they celebrate it differently compare to American celebrating Christmas.
00:30:18	The Elementary School that they used to go to is P.S. 115. School was pretty difficult and it goes in a very fast pace here compared to a Filipino school. They went back to an American school when they were in 3rd or 4th grade. The system felt different for them because they came back to America from the Philippines; they needed time to readjust to their system. Learning, reading got a lot of faster, and going to other classrooms when they switch subjects confused them. 
00:31:53	during 6th grade, Angelina and Frances went back on track to their system and they weren’t falling behind anymore. It took a while for them to get back on their pace, but there were more things that changed while they were gone. Their friends from back then, made other friends, so it was difficult for them to get used to them. 
00:33:33	back then, they used to have a lot of bicycles in the back yards. They ride together at the block most of the time, not on the street thought. They also used to create bicycle with different parts and back then, kids used to ride popular bike called Swinge. 
00:35:28	their brother, Joey, used to be part of a gang in the late 60s. Gangs were forming around that time which was also part of the reason why their parents sent Angelina and Frances to the Philippines. Joey was also a leader in one of the gangs at that time, so other gangs didn’t really bother any of them. Robbie, their brother, was not part of a gang; however, he used to hang out with his friends outside. Their parents were very concern about the family’s safety so they tried to prevent some of their kids to go outside and then they moved to the Philippines for a while. 
00:39:00	during high school, that is when they get start seeing Asians around the neighborhood; back then, there weren’t that much Asian people that lived around their neighborhood. 
00:39:19	a lot of the kids would make fun of Angelina and Frances at first, until kids find out that they are part of the Tabaco family, they tend to back off. So they didn’t really have a problem at school when it came to bullying. 
00:40:35	Back then, people knew their neighbors whether it was the kids or parents, unlike the present time. 
00:44:45	Angelina and Frances usually went to the park with the younger siblings back then at P.S. 115. All of the kids would go there; it would be the main place for kids to have fun and meet up back then. 
00:46:35	there was no prejudice in the area that they lived in. They were the only Filipino in their area, but they lived their life in their own way. Their parents bought their house in 1953; the neighborhood was basically filled with white people. The white people start a petition to kick the colored folks out of their neighborhood. But their father wasn’t going to let the white folks kick them out back then.
00:49:15	in their neighborhood, there used to 1 Jewish family, their Filipino family, and the rest of their neighbors were all white people. 
00:50:38	Angelina and Frances didn’t get racially discriminated that much because kids back then, only focused on the blacks, and white kids didn’t know where to place their status back then. Angelina and Frances also had white and black friends so they were in the mix of both popularity races in Junior High School.
00:51:30	Angelina, Frances and their siblings went to the same high school, which was Martin Van Burren High School in Queens Village. They used to ride bus together, or walk to school and home together because their parents want them to safe. 
00:57:03	there was one Filipino in their high school other than them. They were in the same music class as her. They got to know her more and she played the Viola. She was very quiet, born in the Philippines as well and she came to America at a very young age. Her parents were very strict like Angelina and Frances’ parents. She was very quiet most of the time, but she would talk to Angelina and Frances because she was Filipino as well. 
00:59:15	the teachers in their school knew their family because of their older siblings and the well-known family that had about 10 kids with very strict parents. The teachers knew Angelina and Frances older siblings as well because they knew that they were very good the subject, so when they needed help with their homework, they told them to ask one of their sisters or brothers for help.
01:00:48	they met Filipino from other boroughs like the Bronx; their father knew people from the Bronx and they were Filipino. They tried to hang out with them; however, if they didn’t know the language that they speak, they would be offensive toward them. 
01:04:27	the guys started to drive during their high school times except for the girls. The girls started driving when they were 18 or 19 years old. Most of the time, it is the girls that drives the car because the guys normally take the bus or train. 
01:08:45	While growing up with a Filipino family, they were family oriented. Their parents focused on the kids’ education and their safety. Their mother didn’t want them to rely on anyone else; she wanted them to stand on your own two feet. By the time, when they were going to college, their father didn’t want them to go to college because he believes that the woman in the family should be at home cleaning and cooking for the family. But some of them still went to college and one went to trading school. 
01:10:55	Angelina and Frances doesn’t regret with how they were raised by strict Filipino parents. Their parents did the very best that they could and they imprinted on what a family should be. Their parents did a wonderful job at raising their children and Angelina and Frances believe that they wouldn’t be who they are right now, wouldn’t their parent’s teaching and blessing.  
01:16:20	New York has influenced their life by making it a home for them. Angelina and Frances is not just being proud as being a Filipino American, but also being a true New Yorker, who grew up in New York. They believe that New York is the place where you have the opportunity to become anything that you want to be. They want to bring their relatives and friends from Philippines and share their great experience that they had in New York. 
     
