Johana: This is Johana interviewing Sharon Taylor for the Queens Memory Project, so Sharon I’m just going to start by asking where did you grow up?
Sharon: In St. Louis, Missouri
Johana: St. Louis, Missouri. And how was your childhood there?
Sharon: A little dramatic
Johana: Dramatic?
Sharon: Yea a little hectic 
Johana: Did you like living over there?
Sharon: I mean you’re a kid you don’t necessarily know. Parts of it were good, but it was very, very hot in the summer.
Johana: And, what first got you interested in doing art?
Sharon: When I was a kid I always liked to draw and I liked to draw horses and lots of things. Drawing came easy to me, so that was you know basically why I like to, I just I like to look at a lot of things especially trees and animals, so I like to draw. 
Johana: What was your favorite animal drawing when you were a kid, a horse or a…?
Sharon: Yea I liked drawing horses for the most part, yea.
Johana: Did you like to travel and do…?
Sharon: We liked to travel a lot as a family. We went to, we went to Mexico every winter first, lots of times and in the summer, we went to Wyoming the majority of the summer, for years, yea so we did, we traveled a lot. And, California we used to go to a lot, you know, my dad liked to travel around the country, so he would throw us in the back seat and go off on tangents you know, it was the 60s, 70s 
Johana: That’s fun, that sounds like a good time.
Sharon: Yea.
Johana: And, where did you decide to go to school?
Sharon: I did a lot of more traveling around the country by myself before I went to college and then I ended up living, I lived in San Francisco for a while and then I ended up moving to Cincinnati and that’s where I went to college cause they have a very nice, old art school over there.
Johana: Oh, that’s cool. And, you got your Bachelor’s in Art?
Sharon: Yea, and painting yea.
Johana: Painting, oh wow. And, I saw on your biography that, looking at your website, that you went to teach in Mexico and in Canada, how was that?
Sharon: I taught in several other states, I didn’t teach in Mexico or Canada, I traveled there. But I taught in school in Ohio and I taught in the Ozark, Southern Missouri.
Johana: How was that?
Sharon: That was a bit of a culture shock, but interesting, yea.
Johana: Did you do a lot of art projects there?
Sharon: I did with kids, I did a lot of art projects in the Ozark they were very, you know, they were a little, I don’t want to say they were deprived, but they were hungry to make a lot of things, do a lot of things, and they were really good at it.
Johana: That’s good, that’s always good. And, then you said you went to teach in Mexico?
Sharon: No, no… 
Johana: No, just, just.
Sharon: I never taught in Mexico. When I was a kid we used to live there on and off. We lived there for half the year when it was cold, my father didn’t like the cold. 
Johana: Oh, that’s cool.
Sharon: So, we go down there for the winters and come back. And, it was also early in Mexico before it got too touristy in the South, so and he always, would never, always had to be south of Mexico City cause he was like, it’s not real ‘till you get south of Mexico City. That was his whole thing. 
Johana: That sounds fun.
Sharon: Yea.
Johana: And, then did you go to Canada as well?
Sharon: I did a lot of motorcycle trips up through Canada, so stayed and camped up there, did a bunch of traveling up there, so. 
Johana: That’s nice. 
Sharon: Yea, it was interesting.
Johana: And how, how was that?
Sharon: It was rough, like being on a motorcycle all the time, 24/7, and then camping but when you’re young, you can, you know there were a lot of times, you know, when it’s raining or whatever and you don’t stop because as soon as you stop you get even wetter, so you just keep going and that was hard but otherwise it was really fun
Johana: That sounds like a good time. And, then was it, back then was it dangerous traveling or no?
Sharon: Not like it is, I mean, I feel like it was, it was more common, people, I did a lot of hitchhiking back and forth across the country and it was a bit more common then. I don’t know, I was, I was lucky, you know, I was never in trouble to speak of. But, I feel like now, you know, with, there is a lot of, I don’t know if it’s hyped or if it’s really is really dangerous, I mean it’s probably a combination, but people just don’t do it anymore, but actually from what I can tell.
Johana: It’s pretty dangerous now I’ve heard.
Sharon: Well and, all the youngsters just want to make money, like nobody is interested in like finding themselves you know.
Johana: Exactly. And, how did you end up here in New York?
Sharon: When I went art school in Cincinnati we used to come here twice a year just to see art, do a lot of stuff and I had a lot of friends who had gone to art school and then moved here. And so, I had a daughter, when I lived in California, I had a daughter, I was a single mom, and then she went with me to the Ozarks to teach and then I brought her here to New York one time and when she was only five and for the next three years, she was just like when are we moving there, when are we moving there? I was worried she would be overwhelmed and she just loved it and so we moved here when she was eight. And we’ve been here ever since. 
Johana: Does she like art like you?
Sharon: She is an architect. She went to Cornell and Harvard so now she is a, she is a designer now, but she went to school for architecture.
Johana: And what have you done here in the city, have you done many projects?
Sharon: I taught art in the public schools, I taught in the Bronx for a while, and then I taught in a school in Queens for 18 years, I taught art and then I did a lot of like mural projects. I did the JR’s Turn the World Inside Out. I did, we did a lot of, I had we worked at five points before they tore it down, I had kids that were interns, I got them jobs in a lot of art places. And of course, we went to all the museums and stuff. It’s a great place to teach art and you know teenagers, they always, they usually always like art class.
Johana: Yea, it’s fun. And what, can you tell me a little bit more about the JR art project?
Sharon: Basically, it was, he had a truck where you would come and take portraits of people and then we would, we paste them on to place and when he came to Times Squares, I took a bunch of kids down there and, you know, they had their portraits taken and we got to meet them and we pasted their faces on Times Squares. 
Johana: Oh that’s fun, and how was that, what year was that and like?
Sharon: 2013 maybe…
Johana: 13
Sharon: Maybe, maybe he won price, the like TED talk price in 2011 and so it was just a couple years after that’s when he started doing the inside out project, so it might have been 2013, 12, 13, 14, I know it was before the end of 2014 so.
Johana: Oh, that’s nice, and what other projects have you done in the city?
Sharon: We did the Queens 7 train mural project which is a different murals along the 7 train line in the city that were supported by the DOT and like the one on the bridge that goes, that’s on the street that turns into Queens Boulevard, there is a mural that goes from Long Island City over to La Guardia Community College. It’s 850 feet and we helped a bunch of us helped paint that and now the guy who designed it and originally started the project has moved to Nevada, so now the last couple years we’ve kind of been, me and the kids were kind of in charge of the upkeep 
Johana: And, then how is it like painting a mural that big?
Sharon: Exhausting. It just never ended, but it was a really nice design and it was designed from the patterns of sneaker bottoms and then there was a shoe string design that went all the way through the mural and it would just peak out of different parts, so it was really beautifully designed. And, the sections were big bold colors so it was easy to do it wasn’t too, you know, tiny details.
Johana: What time of year do you do that in? Cause…
Sharon: We did that in the Spring and in the Fall mostly like in the Spring now we check it for, it only, it doesn’t get graffitied very often, people are very you know respectful of it but occasionally it would get graffiti or stickers put on it or some of the paint would start to chip off and we’d go in and try to fix it up in the Spring and sometimes in the fall or whenever there is graffiti we try to cover it up right away so it doesn’t catch on, you know.
Johana: Do you use some type of special paint so that like the weather doesn’t?
Sharon: No, it’s just in Januvik. I want to give them a plug that’s a big Januvik spread there on the Boulevard and they really helped, they donated everything, all the paint and all the materials, the brushes, paints, you know, plastic they donated it all so, so I can always go back to them and be like “we need this color” and they just donate it for the life of the mural so.
Johana: Oh, that’s good, have you done any other projects?
Sharon: I mean, I know we have, I just, we have, we did, we have a big expo night every year that, where the kids, like did all these different shows and then we would have…our high school was a big part of the consortium’s schools so we would have group shows in different places of all the kids’ artwork, so different things like that.
Johana: Do you still teach?
Sharon: I just, last year, I just retired, so I still see the kids sometimes. I still have relationships with kids that I had way back in the day, like in, and help them with college projects and stuff, bigger things, but, and I just went to my principle’s retirement party, so I’m still in touch with the school, do a few projects with them, but mostly I’m retired. Now, I get to paint my own stuff. 
Johana: So, when you were teaching what kind of stuff did to teach to kids? Cause I know like some art classes are different than others?
Sharon: Yea, mine was mostly about…I’m definitely a proponent of black mount school like basically I mean art is good for self-expression and you know a lot of that sort of thing, but I think art is about teaching people to make decisions. Teaching people to own things because for the most part in school you’re worried about or taught things to memorize or that you can regurgitate at some point and I think art it does the opposite, it teaches you how to make decisions, it teaches you that nobody else can make a decision for you and that you have to, like, face your own fears or you have to take risks, you know, and you have to be willing to acknowledge your sloppiness and do whatever you have to do. You have to work, you know, you have to work with it, you have to work with what’s inside and sometimes that’s very scary for kids, but its good like it teaches them to trust themselves and learn how to make decisions. 
Johana: That’s good. Does everyone have like a specific painting style?
Sharon: Everybody has a style, like, you know, I try to give them a lot of times, I would give them a lot of medium choice so that if they felt like a certain medium would express what they wanted to say they could choose that. You know, and kids are all different some of them would know right away what they wanted to do, how they wanted to do it and other kids would just agonize over like concept and I would always hear this like “Miss I don’t know why I’m in this class, I don’t know how to draw,” you know that was it, but they just got to work through all of that and then figure out that it’s not about that, it’s not about skill level anymore, it’s about like examining things so 
Johana: That’s good, and I think I read somewhere that you went back to school for your Master’s?
Sharon: Yea I did, I went back to school for my Master’s in a, mostly in liberal studies because I had to, cause in New York, like I had a lot in the two other states where I taught. I have teaching degrees in two other states and they don’t expect you to have a Master’s Degree, they expect you to have teaching certification so they’re a lot more stringent in other states it’s a lot more rigorous on how you learn to teach. Whereas, in New York you just, you basically need a Master’s Degree, you’re not, you’re really not, to have a lot of, you do some professional development every year but you’re not necessarily required to take courses specifically designed to teach you how to teach. 
Johana: Oh ok, and is there like a specific way they teach you how to teach art or is it just in general?
Sharon: No because then you know it’s a fluid thing and a lot of people teach it differently. There’re specific classes you can teach like, you know, drawing or painting or whatever but it also depends on the department of education because in our school we didn’t have a set curriculum because we were part of the National Consortium which is a more independent schools and so we pretty much had more choice in what we taught. I can’t speak for all art teachers but that’s how it was in our school and all the middle colleges around the country, which there are like 20 something of them now, they don’t teach a little more independently than traditional high schools. 
Johana: Do you still like to travel and go around?
Sharon: I do, I just, now it just seems like time goes by so much faster like traveling is such a luxury, there is too much to do. 
Johana: Have you ever gone overseas and painted something?
Sharon: Not to, not to make art but I’ve gone overseas. My daughter went to school overseas in London for a year and so we took some time and did a lot of traveling in Europe. 
Johana: That’s nice, where did she go?
Sharon: She went to Oxford.
Johana: Oxford. And, where did you guys travel to?
Sharon: We went to a lot of places in England, we went to France, and of course if you teach art you have to go to the Louvre, so (laughter) I would really like to go back there.
Johana: Would you ever go and just set up shop and paint over there? Or just…
Sharon: I mean, I don’t know if I had connections I probably would. I don’t know if I’d have the nerve to just do it cold, but I wish I spoke more languages than I do but yea.
Johana That’s cool, and can you tell me about your paintings?
Sharon: I just finished writing a proposal for the Queens Council of the Arts, I want to do a series of paintings in a non-representational, like abstract paintings a lot of people confuse those two, but some large paintings in reaction about women’s position in society right  now cause it’s changing and there’s a lot going on and there was a great article in the New Yorker called “The Canvas Ceiling” about women in the 50s and abstract expressionism and when I was in college and after college I painted almost exclusively abstract expressionist paintings and so that’s what I would like to pursue now again more so than, I did a series recently of a bunch of city-scapes of views of Long Island City that are not going to be available to people very soon because of the really fast development that happening in Long Island City. It’s developing faster than almost anywhere in the country and so a lot of the views that were around when I first moved here 20 years ago are no longer here so I took pictures of them. I did a series of paintings of those but they are very, I don’t know, traditional, they are not traditional but they are very, they’re city-scapes so they are very recognizable but that’s not how I usually paint.
Johana: Can you describe abstract expressionism?
Sharon: It’s mostly, it’s about, to me, I feel like it’s about the person being a conduit in a sense of it’s about the purity of the paint and the and using formal issues like light and depth and contrasts and that stuff, form, color to create an image that you can move into and around in and that carries some emotion with it. But, it’s hard to get into a space where you can make those, you really have to focus on  making them repeatedly and to get into that space that you become somewhat of a conduit of your emotion, but it comes out in the purity of the color and its really, it’s hard to put into words but that’s how I see it and I just feel like this is a prime time to, as a woman and a mother and having grown up relatively independent very independent my whole life, I feel like I’m wanting that to come through in the paintings. It’s not necessarily anger as much as like incredulous that we are as women seem to be going backwards in our independence and I would I want to express that somehow but I’m not sure how it’s going to come out. Abstract expressionism is just what it says it’s just an expression that you have to work with and make the painting it’s not something where you have a predicted outcome.
Johana: That’s nice, and how long does it usually take you to do a painting?
Sharon: It usually, a, somewhere between a month to three months depending on you know the size and how it works out. 
Johana: And did you first start displaying your work here in the gallery or how did you end up here?
Sharon: I ended up here because LICA is just a really great, LICA is Long Island City Artists, and they’ve been around since the 80s and they’re just a really great artist organization because they are non-profit. They have all the benefits of being with other artists, working with other artists and putting on exhibits and doing all the great stuff without having a share of the gallery world and the money making and the you know the, the weird competitive vibe that you get in other gallery scenes this doesn’t happen here the people are really amazing people who run it, it’s a great place to work. 
Johana: Have you displayed your work in other galleries around the country or….?
Sharon: Not in New York, only in Cincinnati and a little bit in Ohio, nothing dramatic, but not really in New York like unless you count like the cafes and local venues nothing, no other galleries.
Johana: And, what were your biggest inspirations in other artists or role models?
Sharon: Yea I’ve always been like a big fan of the, of the abstract expressionist of the 50s and then again in the 80s. There were some great women you know like Grace Hardigan and different, Elaine DiCouning, people where, women who were really painters and the you know sculptors who, Louise Nebison who was a great inspiration and then there were France Klein, he had a show in the 80s that really changed how I saw painting, like he had a huge retrospective it was just amazing. And, a Pierce Doulage is a French painter and he is still hard at it and he is always his works have always been very inspirational for me. And, you know, and then there are people who are also very precise there is a lot of, print making is really popular in the school that I went to, so it was a really old school and I’m always, I always admire my mentors and how hard they work and how hard it is to do that, so there’s been, you know, inspiration from different places.
Johana: Is there a difference between the 50s and 80s and what would be developed?
Sharon: Yea, I mean, I guess they would, I don’t know, that for that new abstract expressionism, I don’t know, but I feel like with this it comes when the frustration gets, I really think that abstract expressionism is connected to the politics of the nation if not the world because it gets, I mean the 50s clearly came out of people were, you know, so much of the world was destroyed in World War 2 and then they were facing obliteration by the atom bombs everything had been taken, every choice people had seems to be spinning or society seems to be spinning a little out of control and were facing something, you know, just like in the late 40s when they faced the, you know, human annihilation by the atom bomb. Now we are facing annihilation by human annihilation by global warming and nobody seems to be paying enough attention and so I feel like there is this constant anxiety and dread that we are living with that has to be expressed, you know, in some form of art specifically. I feel like that’s when that comes around.
Johana: Well do you think that art is specifically, I guess does society impact art in some way?
Sharon: Yea, I think it goes both ways I think society really impacts art and art really impacts society. Like it’s just, you know, it’s a two way streak it goes back and forth I don’t know how exactly or at what rate it’s just clear, you know, and I mean I think that the whole commercial gallery instance, that whole, think of fancy paintings being shredded and now it’s worth even more money, that just happened recently. I mean the absurdities of the art market now are just, I mean, that’s a reflection of the uncertainty of the economy, you know, like money, you know, people can’t let go of the idea that money is everything. 
Johana: That’s true. That’s very true. And, have you ever sold any of your paintings or just displayed them?
Sharon: No, I’ve sold work. I sold work in Cincinnati, some big abstract expressionist paintings I sold there that were, one that I was most proud of is I sold one to the director of fine arts acquisitions at the Cincinnati Art Museum so that made me very happy. I don’t know where it is now but, at the time, I was very, that was years ago, but and I’ve sold little pieces here and there over the years I mean nothing I can live off of but… 
Johana: And do you display them and people buy them or do they contact you to paint it for them?
Sharon: Oh no. I don’t, I’ve never done commission work, it’s always been like people have seen something and wanted to buy it. I’m not sure I can do commission work that would be weird. I’m sure that would go wrong somehow. When I used to do portraits, when I was younger, you always do portraits when you are in art school or whatever and people always ended up looking 30 years older than they actually were and they would get mad at me so I don’t do that anymore. 
Johana: So, every art form is different for each person right like some people do better than others, so your strong point is the abstract one or have you…?
Sharon: Yes, I think so I mean a lot of people like that series I did of the city-scapes but I also think that cause its very accessible, you know, recognize your neighborhood and you recognize the city in the background or whatever, and it’s just, you know, but those are more exercises in recording something that’s going to get lost, you know, and something that, you know, I was trying to deal with, I wanted to see the Long Island City train station in a more positive light and it’s not always the most easy thing, you know, construction is overwhelming when you live here but that was my ultimate goal.
Johana: And what’s your weakest form of painting, just out of curiosity cause?
Sharon: Oh, water color.
Johana: Water color?
Sharon: Water color that’s crazy.
Johana: How come?
Sharon: Because its, its backwards like the idea that your highlights are what you leave bear or your light is part of what you don’t put any paint on, like that’s just in my world, that’s a prescription for disaster because you can’t, I like to put paint on and take it off, put it on, and take it off, until I get it the way I want it. I struggle a lot with the paintings and with water color you don’t get that, you don’t have that option.
Johana: You can’t take it off?
Sharon: Yea you do it and its done and that’s like truly frightening.
Johana: Do you ever get nervous before starting a painting?
Sharon: No, I just get like dread, you know, I don’t want to start it because I just, I can’t, like once you start it, it goes but starting is definitely the hardest part.
Johana: It is?
Sharon: Yea.
Johana: Do you have to picture your inspiration, what you want or does it just come with it?
Sharon: I mean a little bit always in the beginning, you just have an idea but it never goes the way you think it’s going to go.
Johana: No? It’s always something new. That’s nice. Do you ever get nervous when you are displaying them to people?
Sharon: No, I’m always surprised by what people like and don’t like it’s you know. But no once it’s done it’s done, if people don’t like it its whatever. I get nervous when I’m in the middle of something and people and stuff, you know, like fellow artists or friends are like “what” you know they, they’re critical of a part and sometimes that’s very helpful but other times I’m just like it makes me nervous cause I don’t know with, whether to go with my instincts or do what they’re saying. I get confused but its good it’s always good to get criticism or feedback, what you call it, but once it’s done it’s done. I’m not that worried, it’s like move on.
Johana: And your friends they do other types of paintings? 
Sharon: Some of them do, yea. I have a lot of photography, photographer friends and, I, lots of different types of work.
Johana: Have you ever tried sculpting?
Sharon: Yea, we had, I had to teach ceramics when I taught in the Ozarks which is not necessarily sculpture, that’s more like pottery and all of that, and sculpting is very hard. I did, I had to do a lot of it when you, when you go to an all, when you go to a fine arts school like a four year accredited fine arts school you have to do every kind of art and so I did have some experience with it, but I’ve never done it like I made some puppets at one time and I’ve done some like outlandish stuff but nothing traditional. 
Johana: And how do you, how do you get graded on art like when you go to a fine arts school?
Sharon: All the teachers I had, were artists themselves and so they seem to have an idea of what they were looking for number one and what was especially, the painting teachers they knew exactly what you put into it they, knew the paint you used (inaudible) so if you weren’t committed they knew immediately and that’s basically what you get the most slack for just being (inaudible).
Johana: Oh, so they would grade you based on your commitment to it or work you put?
Sharon: Yea, like, you know, we definitely had people that they picked out as people that they thought were going the distance. They were, I used to think, in an art school that is strictly an arts school you, people feed off of each other’s energies and so it becomes clear quickly and it’s also like really, really critical like they were very critical like you know in freshman and sophomore year it’s like the teachers were, it seems like it was their goal to make you cry, yea. Everybody who didn’t end up running out crying at some point during their critique and you just had to, you know, suck it up and a lot of people drop out, you know, art school is not for everybody so that’s a good question. How do they know, they just seem to know and you just, you know, sometimes you disagree with them but for the most part they know, the other students know, they know what’s working and what’s not…
Johana: So, do you also get graded on like if you have to do the same style do you get graded based on comparing each other or no?
Sharon: No, because in a, in a, where I went to, my degree was in painting so there was no teaching of style you. You were taught like in your painting classes, you were taught like you would have maybe models we’d have to paint and whatever but it was all ours, they wanted our particular personal style, you know, they wanted to see our work, you know, they didn’t want us to follow any parameters the only ones that had real rules were the print makers but that’s just so that, they were all process rules but they were never like, we were never, except for when we had like specific still lives or models or whatever we were never required to produce anything, you know like, the same as anybody else. I guess I’m trying to say I can’t, I was going to say something but I can’t remember, forgot, go ahead.
Johana: So, when you go to a fine arts school do they just teach you art or do you have to do like regular college work?
Sharon: No, no you have to do English and Algebra and all that stuff, yea cause it’s an accredited, yea, algebra. And, I always told the kids when I taught high school that it’s like you can’t, you need to finish your math credits while you’re in high school you do not want to take algebra in college. 
Johana: That’s true.
Sharon: Because you’re not going to get like Americans in English we don’t teach math in college because we are not smart enough we weren’t raised, we weren’t raised, we weren’t taught math the same way, we’re just, we just don’t have, you know, for what you can say like whether you think it’s not smart or whatever we are not comfortable for the most part. I know I’m generalizing, with math for the most part and those, every math teacher you get when you’re in college is just going to have some sort of accent and if you can’t, if you’re not comfortable enough, that’s going to make that class all that much harder, you know. So, it’s like you know, that was my, that was hard, college algebra but yea, you have to have all those courses and you know, and then you have, and you know you have in art school, there is a wide variety of teachers just like anywhere else. Teaching is something people do for a whole lot of different reasons so you never know what you’re going to get.
Johana: Would you ever go on to teaching in college?
Sharon: I taught a little bit in La Guardia Community College. It’s I mean it’s nice to have kids that are very interested but it’s also hard because I like to teach kids that are just getting comfortable with themselves or like learning to challenge themselves. Whereas, I’m not, I don’t necessarily like teaching kids that consider themselves art starts, you know, they just want to show you how good they are cause it’s like you want to send them off to art school, like college art school, so they can get ripped apart and have to learn what, how all the things that they don’t know. So, I prefer to teach kids who are, and I’ve always taught schools, in high schools, you know, art is a, one of the minor subjects. I’ve never taught in schools cause in New York, you have specialized schools like La Guardia School for the Arts or whatever and I’ve never taught in schools like that cause I prefer to teach kids who are having a harder time.
Johana: Oh, that’s nice. Do you have to follow a certain curriculum when you’re teaching?
Sharon: Oh, not in the school I taught, not in the high school I taught, like I said we were part of the consortium, we didn’t have to do that. But, I can’t speak for the other New York City public schools, I don’t know how that works exactly. 
Johana: How did you grade students?
Sharon: Mostly I did, they all had, I gave them all sketch books and they had to, they had a set of assignments they had to do in their sketch books and I, a lot of times I graded them on how creative they approached the assignment, you know, how much risk they were willing to take, how much they looked outside the box and we always had big final projects and most of them, none of them, were about skill level, like you know, rendering, the ability to look at something and draw it the same way but that didn’t have anything to do with my grading which really made it made, the kids who thought of themselves, like you know, art starts, you know, made them mad. They grew up drawing manga, you know, all their lives were in a daze, they often didn’t get that, so that was that, but you got to get outside the box, you had to challenge yourself to get a good grade.
Johana: That’s good and what was your final project when you were in college, what did you focus on?
Sharon: Oh, in college we had to have a big show at the end and I did, I had a whole lot of large paintings, large expressionist, abstract expressionist oil paintings. I had, that was the final, we had a fine arts show, me and 3 other people in a gallery, we had to put on a big show and I sold some work that night so to sell work at that age. 
Johana: That’s nice, would you go back to teaching?
Sharon: Maybe at some point, after I do some of my own stuff, I don’t know, maybe part time or maybe a, yea, I don’t know, that’s a hard question. I like it, I miss it, I miss the kids but it’s also like exhausting so...
Johana: I could imagine, yea that’s nice. Do you have anything that you’re currently working on in here? 
Sharon: Yea, I’m working on, I’m finishing my series of the views of Long Island City views that and I’m also and when that’s done because those are going to be shown in a little gallery in December, I’m going to start on that big set of like feminist for lack of a better word, abstract expressionist, and hope that I get the grant to like, if I get the grant I’m going to immediately buy all the same size large canvases like put together a set of large canvases all the same size but that’s really expensive so if I don’t get the grant, I’m going to make the paintings on whatever I can cop together, you know, and you know.
Johana: Art supplies are expensive?
Sharon: Yea, they are.
Johana: Very?
Sharon: Yea. 
Johana: Where do you usually buy them?
Sharon: I buy them at that place, at Artists and Craftsmen, it’s right there on 34 Street off of Queens Boulevard, its huge and people haven’t really, it’s really undiscovered yet. I think counting on Long Island City being blown up like everybody else is and they’ll have lots of business.
Johana: And do all your friends display their work here or do they?
Sharon: A lot of my friends do and then I also have friends who are in the, what do you call that, performance arts here. There’s also a performance arts part of LICA so there are plays and there are works sometimes you know. Last summer, I curated a big show that went with a play, a specific play so the art work around the gallery reflected the play’s big theme.
Johana: What does it mean to curate a show?
Sharon: You just decide where all the work goes on the wall like what goes with what, you know, which, how it’s going to display or whatever, which is an art form in itself, it’s not easy especially because artists are hard to deal with. 
Johana; I could imagine maybe somebody wants it in the front and its…a lot of that?
Sharon: Yea.
Johana: So what advice would you give to students now that are going through school and want to be artists?
Sharon: Just, it’s a whole different world now with media being so much of a part of it so I feel like I’m much more in a world of traditional art making so I guess the advice I would give them is make sure you learn programs like photoshop and illustrator and rhino whatever the big programs are now that you keep abreast of that stuff because I haven’t and now there are things I want to do that I should have kept up to speed on cause it changes so fast but also its like trust yourself. That would be it, like if you really want to do something, don’t listen to people when they tell you not to do it and don’t do it based on whether you’re going to make money off of it or not cause it never really rings true in art, you know, you got it, do it because, you know, it sounds corny but you got to do it because you feel it, you can’t do it just because it’s the responsible thing to do…boring.
Johana: And what advice would you give people that want to teach art?
Sharon: Go do some other stuff first like do a whole lot, I give that advice to anybody that wants to be a teacher like I don’t think it’s healthy to go straight from college into teaching even if you go to teachers college because I feel like if you don’t have enough life experience you can’t relate to teenagers you got to have some life experience or you can’t relate to teenagers, a lot of them now are, they’re so many of them are going through so much stuff if you don’t, if you can’t, if you’re too busy trying to corral them into what you think they need to know and can’t see them for who they are, if you can’t meet them where they are, then you’re not going to get anything across from them. 
Johana: That’s true, that’s very true. Is there anything else you’d like to add?
Sharon: No, I think I’ve talked a lot. 
Johana: Alright. 

