My name is Ching Lee.  I am an elder of this church, and this is for Taiwanese Union Christian church, RCA [Reformed Church of America], and it is located on 31st Street.  Many of us actually have come to this country to study.  We have people who are getting their MD degree, their PhD degree, and their higher education.  And they stay here for that.  And some of us are immigrants, mostly from Taiwan.  We are Christians.  Many of us in Taiwan are Presbyterians.  And now we have joined RCA and our church members come from Westchester, Staten Island, and Long Island, around the Tri State area.    We come here to worship and also we try to provide a home for our children.  Once they are in their individual community they don’t really have the kind of Taiwanese home base to grow up with.  Many of them have adapted to the local environment.  And some of them – the local environment may not be very suitable for them as Taiwanese; so as a church movement we like to provide worship, and bible studies, and apart from sharing the common faith in Christianity, we also have the […] for the Taiwanese identity.    Aside from the main church where we use Taiwanese for worship, we also translate it into Mandarin.  Many of the people come from China and they are also looking for a place for worship.  We also have an English mission, where some of them have grown up and are professional now.  We also welcome neighborhood people to come to us to worship.  Initially we think that they should become an independent church and have two independent churches but they decided they wanted to be connected to us, so we still have them as an English mission.  So we have this Taiwanese church and the new building for the English Mission.  We have pastors over there.    I came in 1964.  I went to study in Ohio.  Then I got my degree and became a professor in Brooklyn College, part of CUNY.  And three years ago I retired so now I have become more active in the church.    We also have a photography group.  This group is going to have an exhibition this coming Tuesday, and it’s very special because all the photographers are women.  We thought that a female can have their viewpoint of the world…they are much more sensitive about their environment.  So we encourage them to put up shows.  This time they have flowers, scenery, Disneyworld, different places.    Our Church members are very into the future of Taiwan too.  So next week we’re going to have an activity for Taiwan freedom’ “Keep Taiwan free”, at the UN.  We are very active in trying to maintain Taiwan’s identity as a nation.  It’s a long struggle but its hopeful…to get into the UN that’s a different story, but to remain as a government/autonomous, unless they come and bombard us or something.  