Akili Walker an Audio Engineer since 1973 has over 150 albums to his credit and has recorded or toured with acts like Prince, Cameo, Brass Construction, Eddie Kendrick’s, LL Cool J, Run-DMC, Kurtis Blow, and hundreds more. Summary:  (Steven) Akili Walker was born in Queens General Hospital on 164th street. His family then moved to Freeport, Long Island. His family was the first African Americans to move into a white neighborhood. In Freeport there were two sides - a black side and a white side, but Akili never felt he faced racism, and had both black and white friends. At a young age Akili began exploring New York City, he would go to Manhattan from Long Island to visit his grandmother and to watch shows in the Apollo 5 Theater by himself. Akili went to the Freeport High school until ninth grade, but didn’t like it and left at age sixteen.  He then went to a school in Massachusetts, and finally found a school in Brooklyn called Uhuru Sasa run by a Black Nationalist organization which he liked.  At nineteen he became interested in learning to work with sound when he saw his friends using the sound board at a jazz show happening where he worked. After a while he was asked to go along on road shows with musicians as a sound engineer. He became interested in working in the studio after working with the Jimmy Castor Bunch, and decided to go to recording school to expand his skills, eventually being offered a job in a Manhattan studio. He began by working with two senior engineers, and later began to work on his own with musicians and artists such as Prince, and LL cool J. Throughout the interview, he talks about his life in the beginning, going on tours with artists, Hip-Hop and music of other genres. 00:00:28 Akili Walker was born in Queens General Hospital 164th Street. He lived in Queens until he was five and then moved to Freeport, Long Island. 00:01:02 The Walkers were the first African American family in the neighborhood. There was a black side and a white side of Freeport, but he never faced racism and had both white and black friends. 00:01:49 Akili loved exploring New York City, and he would travel to Manhattan at the age of ten from Long Island to visit his grandmother. At thirteen he would go to see music shows at the Apollo by himself, he saw the Jackson Five before they were popular at a competition there. 00:03:14 When traveling to Manhattan the stations would have candy machines and bathrooms. Once you got out of the station there were lots of drug addicts. 00:04:56 He says that Manhattan has progressed a lot from the time when he was young till now especially the “ghetto” places from the old days. He says Long Island now is no longer a binary between blacks and whites because people of different races are now living in the area. 00:08:05 He attended Freeport High School until the 9th grade and left traditional high school at 16 because he never really liked school. He then went to a school in Massachusetts where he did not feel accepted. He ended up at a school he liked called Uhuru Sasa in Bedford-Stuyvesant Brooklyn, which was run by a Black Nationalist organization. 00:09:18  In that school, he was asked to be a teacher for five and six year old children, even though he didn’t have a degree, because the school was looking for people that the kids could relate to and look up to. 00:11: 28 At nineteen while he was working at The East, (an Afrocentric cultural center and school in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn that had weekend jazz), he saw his friends working with a mixing board which controlled the sounds and he knew what he wanted to do with his life.  00:12:07 He learned how to control and make new sounds from his friends while working at The East during shows. (Weekend jazz shows at The East featured the likes of Betty Carter, Roland Kirk and Sun Ra.) 00:12:19 Akili was asked to go on a road show as a sound engineer with the musician Lonnie Liston. Akili thought of himself as a professional [sound engineer] from going on the road with Lonnie and many other musicians. 00:14:18 There were not very many sound black sound engineers in the 70’s, and while touring with musicians, Akili wasn’t taken seriously as a sound engineer in the clubs; they always thought he was a brother or a cousin of the artist. After a time he started to be taken seriously, when they saw he was good. 00:15:45 He expanded his knowledge of sound systems by learning and working with his friend QJ, a DJ and sound professional, whom he met through a friend at The East (club). He would go with QJ when he worked sound for shows in Manhattan mostly Latin acts like Eddie Palmieri etc., and also R&B shows.  00:16:46 Mr. Walker talks about the difference between shows on the road and shows in New York City. 00:18:28 After working with the Jimmy Castor Bunch Mr. Walker decided he wanted to be in the studio, so he attended a 6 week recording school to learn about sound engineering. Afterward he went around to studios in Manhattan looking for work and was offered a job at Music Farm sound studio where he earned 75 dollars a week.   00:20:46 At Music Farm, he first swept floors and things like that, but after a while he assisted two studio engineers, he also would sneak people in the studio to record them and practice recording. Then started doing sessions himself, he moved up the ranks quickly because he really knew what he wanted to do. 00:23:25 He worked with Prince as a studio engineer and describes how it was working with Prince in the studio and on the road. 00:28:30 Mr. Walker talks about how he has a “good ear”, and was always around music because his father was an audiophile, and was always listening to his big collection of records. Also Akili was a drummer when he was a kid and by the age of thirteen he was in the musicians union of New York, because he won the battle of the bands. 00:32:25 Mr. Walker talks about when he started to hear about hip hop and the people who he met and worked with. 00:35:42 Mr. Walker discusses his first impression of hip-hop. He talks about hip-hop as simple and not requiring many instruments, there were no drum machines back then, so there would be a live drummer, a bass player, and a keyboard, and that’s it. Hip-hop was simple compared to some of the disco stuff he worked on that had live horn players, or string players, two guitars, two keyboards. Eventually the drum machine came out; DMX was the first hip-hop artist to use that. 00:38:51 Mr. Walker explains why some Artists hated Hip-Hop. 00:40:51 He talks about why studio engineers loved different genres of music and how Larry Smith (a hip-hop producer who ran Rush Grove with Russell Simmons and made records with Kurtis Blow and Run-DMC) from Jamaica, Queens introduced him to hip-hop. He started working with them at Music Farm studio, and then worked with them at other studios around the city.   00:46:04 Akili talks about the growth of the hip-hop, how there were only a few white people at the shows, then you had the Beastie Boys come out, and hip-hop started to get really popular. He started going with hip-hop groups on tours of Europe, which was a culture shock, they didn’t have the same products, they didn’t have your cigarettes, stuff like that, but the people loved the music. 00:48:10 Akili talks about the difference in the music venues in America and Europe, at the time. In Europe the worked in smaller clubs as opposed to arenas in the U.S., also Europe had way less power, so the sound just wasn’t the same. 00:49:50 Akili was not surprised by the success of any of the artists he has worked with. He talks about the difference in Hip-Hop all over America since its first growth in New York, with NWA in California, and hip-hop coming from Nashville, Houston, and Miami too. 00: 53:36 Akili talks about the tensions between East Coast and West Coast hip-hop artists, how everyone from both coasts had a problem with MC hammer back in the day coming from New York, because his beat was so fast. And how hip-hop from all over fused together in the 90’s when Death Row Records started in California. 00:56:00 Akili talks about why hip-hop changed, and how it is not just music - it is a culture. 00:58:24 Akili describes how young people now don’t know who these artists (like Kurtis Blow, or Whodini) are, and aren’t given credit which is definitely due. 01:01:10 Mr. Walker talks about hearing his sounds while on tour, adjusting the microphone and the pressure of having 30,000 people looking at you.  01:03:08  Akili talks about his best experience on tour. [example] “Well I think uh one time I had a story where LL Cool J was on tour, on his own tour, his first solo tour, and um Run-D.M.C. was on tour, and the Beastie Boys and it was decided at one point that both tours would come together in Atlanta, Georgia and do a show. So the lineup was Public Enemy, and Kurtis and Lonnie and LL Cool J from that tour and Beastie Boys and Run-D.M.C. from that tour. And LL was so hyped about it because you know because he had just sold out all over the country, you know he was very popular and now he’s going to perform with his idols Run-D.M.C. from the same neighborhood of Hollis, Queens you know. And the first thing he said when he came on stage, he came on stage and said Akili, we gotta get hyped, you know and so I turned up the sound system, which we were using Run-D.M.C.’s sound system. And you know I turned it up louder than they were used to hearing it and the sound company tried turning it down, I kept smacking their hands, telling ‘em to get outta here and LLs going back and forth and he’s just rocking the crowd and we really uh you know had a good show” 01:09:22 Mr. Walker recalls bad experiences with equipment he’s had while touring, and how it is important to do a sound check before a show. He likes working in both the studio and on tour, when he gets bored of one, he does the other. “I get bored on the road, go back to the studio. I get bored in the studio, go on the road.” 01:11:40  Mr. Walker talks about what it’s like to hear his stuff on the radio (it’s an incredible feeling), and how he loves to hear music in the analog as opposed to the digital, how analog is nice and warm, digital is compressed and can sound flat. 01:14:38 Akili talks about how he loves to go see live music and going out in NYC clubs. 01:17:31 Mr. Walker discusses how he felt hearing his music in the club and the influence of Queens’s musicians in hip-hop.     