Ellen Weingart, Edith Balan, and Linda Tucker, all Queens College alumnae, recount their time at Queens College in the 1960’s. They all grew up nearby and attended Queens College because at the time it was free and very prestigious. They spoke about their experiences in housing plans and with social activities, as well as the rigorous academics. Ellen went into education, taught for a while, but finally settled into education administration. Linda went on to become a published author and an editor-in-chief for many magazines and newspapers. Edie also went into teaching after graduation but switched tracks after returning from maternity leave. Edie eventually settled into museum administrative work which entailed a lot of docent work and organizing education material. All three women remained friends throughout the years and now live in Long Island. 
00:01:00*	Jaqueline asks why the interviewees decided to go to Queens College. Ellen went to Queens College because it was close to home, had a good rep, and seemed like a good fit. Linda agrees, Queens College was close to home and most importantly it was free. Good reputation attracted many. Edith, daughter of immigrants (father was a postal worker), first gen college student also chose Queens College because it was close to home and free. Edie’s family lived across the street in Pomonok. Hunter was too far. 
00:02:41*	Ellen mentions that at the time that she graduated high school in 1956 that Queens College was considered the top of the colleges in New York City. Not easy to get into and it was very prestigious. You had to have a 90 and above average to get into Queens College, but if you didn’t have that average you can take an exam and it would place you depending on your score. You’d be able to place out of certain classes depending on your score. 
00:04:43*	Jaqueline asks how the three women met each other. Linda and Ellen are cousins. Edith met Ellen when she got married and moved to Woodbury. Edith’s husband had mutual friends through work w Ellen’s husband, they met at the tennis courts at Syosset Park . They’ve been friends for almost 50 years. Edith and Linda met through Ellen. Turns out that Edith and Linda actually graduated from Queens College the same year. 
00:05:35	Jaqueline asks what were their favorite classes. Ellen  says English, Linda says English, and Edith liked History. Jaqueline asks about the housing plans at Queens College. Ellen says that she joined the Rainbow House and mentions that housing was a social place and a lot of people used it for dating. Ellen wanted to start a housing plan for people that were already in relationships with someone, named it “attached” plan but it didn’t pan out. 
00:07:40	Ellen started making friends who were joining “rainbow” house and so that’s how she joined in. They had a lot of activities especially for girls that were already in relationships or engaged and so they had “drag” parties where you would “drag” your partner. Not your usual, what are now called “drag” parties where folks would dress up “in opposite gender” clothing. There were other “stag” parties for people that weren’t in relationships. Rainbow house was really social, they went to the theater in the city and had beach parties. Everyone was considered really young to be engaged, but it was part of the culture and the newspaper “the Phoenix” would publish lists based on houses of people that were engaged. 
00:11:03*	Many of the women got married early, Ellen married before graduating Queens College. Linda came on campus in 1958 and joined the Rainbow house mainly because of Ellen. Linda was more involved in a magazine called “Spectrum”, the literary magazine for Queens, where she was the editor-in-chief. Through the magazine Linda was nominated to “Who’s Who Among Students” (a national college student recognition program in the US that’s been compiling it’s list since 1934). 
00:12:39	Edie belonged to Hilltop House and it was also very social. Edie doesn’t recall being very involved or doing social projects. Edie talks about her friend, who had also gone to Queens College, who mentioned that all the men at those parties were so short. 
00:14:04*	Jaqueline asks what their best memory of attending Queens College was.  Ellen says that in hindsight her best memory was the quality of the education which she didn’t realize at the time. She noticed that when she went to graduate school (for a business administration degree) she was ahead of her peers because of how Queens College had prepared her. While being at Queens College, though, Ellen says it was hard and she was just too busy to take a lot in. Edie adds on that when she graduated Queens College as a speech educator she had to present a speech, was questioned by faculty, had to take a national exam, and every time anyone finished a core program (like contemporary civilization) in addition to the courses and the papers, there were more examinations. Edie mentions that by the time she graduated, she didn’t want to see another book. This is all to say that she felt she was well prepared at Queens College, almost felt like she had done a Master’s Degree by the time she graduated. Though, Edie points out that some classes were lacking. Overall they think it was a good school and it taught you to be disciplined and focused. 
00:17:43	Linda chimes in and reiterates that it was the quality of education at Queens College. She loved it and her time at Queens College might’ve been some of the best years of her life. She took so many different classes and points out art, philosophy, history, aesthetics, music, all of those classes contributed to her background in knowledge. She took one class specifically in Anthropology where she became close with the professor Mariam Slater. Linda went to her house many times, Mariam would go to Linda’s sons concerts. This professor just really opened up a whole new door for Linda. 
00:19: 31 	All three women question whether students nowadays get the same level of education. Ellen says that she knows for a fact that students aren’t getting the same education because her daughter is 50 years old and also went to college and she didn’t have to take the core classes the way they did. Also that her daughter was the only one in her class that knew the capital of all the states. 
00:20:42	Jaqueline says that she’s asked all her questions and that the women should take the interview from here and talk about whatever they want to. Edie says she was too busy studying. Linda points out that back in the day there were two cafeterias; the big caf and the little caf. In the big caf there were sororities, fraternities, houses. In the little caf were the philosophy majors, writing majors, sociology majors—they decided they were different from the majority. Linda would always go to the little caf and didn’t really associate with people that were mainly in the big caf. Linda asks if it’s the same way now and Jaqueline says that it’s all one caf now, but also that there are many more choices including food trucks. 
00:22:39	Ellen points out that she didn’t know at the beginning what she wanted to study when she started Queens College. She signed up for vocational guidance service that allowed her to take an exam (Cooter Vocational Preference Exam) but it didn’t clarify anything for her. Ellen ended up being an education major, but realized she didn’t like teaching. She got a job teaching for NYC, but didn’t like it and went on a 14 year maternity leave, 4 years with each child. Later on she got a job at a school district coordinating volunteers and realized she like the administrative side. Went for a Master’s degree in Business Administration and ended up with a totally different career and never went back to the classroom, became an administrator. 
00:25:00 	Edie chimes in that she had a different path. She graduated as a speech education major and student taught at Bryant High School in Astoria. Was 17 years old student teaching, as old as the seniors at the school. Edie didn’t feel comfortable teaching high school and so she got more education credits and went on to teach elementary education for 7 years. After her maternity leave she wanted to go back into teaching, but there were no job openings in Long Island because of budget restraints. Edie didn’t want to go back to the City to teach so she had to reinvent herself. Edie ended up working for the Nassau County museum system in their museum education department. Did a lot of docent work and organizing educational material. Edie feels like her experience at Queens College helped her do that and her skills were easily transferred. 
00:27:10*	All three women agree that the professors at Queens College were excellent. Even the professors they disliked were good. They say that Queens College being a Liberal Arts school really helped them out a lot. 
00:27:34	Linda is a published author. She went into Queens College to be a writer and came out a writer.  Linda says she learned a lot about the world around her at Queens College. Linda feels like nowadays people only see college as a way to get a job. She warns her grandchildren that it’s not all about that, that they should enjoy college more and learn about a lot more. Linda thinks the youth today need a broader education. 
00:29:35*	Edie chimes in saying that when they went to school the opportunities were a lot more limited. Most women became a nurse, a teacher, and very few that went on to become attorneys and physicians. For the most part women went on to get married, have children. Edie claims that it was them three that started the wave of going back to work after having children, but that’s not the case today. Edie does think that nowadays since everything is computerized and digital it’s important that students study useful material and major in something that will get them those jobs.  
00:31:36*	Linda has a novel that’s available on the kindle and has various short stories and book reviews. She’s written for newspapers and magazines, and most recently is doing freelance work.
00:32:17	Ellen donated some memorabilia to Queens College. A rainbow house pin that people back in the day would use it as a way to identify that they were part of rainbow house. Ellen was also interviewed by the Queens College alumni magazine. Ellen explains what “pinning” was—if a boy belonged to a fraternity he would “pin” you as a pre-engagement sign (after going steady, but before getting engaged). He would later go on to become Ellen’s husband. He went to Brooklyn Poly-Technic Institute and belonged to a fraternity. Ellen wore his frat pin over her left breast. When they got engaged, Ellen stopped wearing the pin. Now has saved both her husband’s pin and her own house pin. Ellen also donated a copy of the newspaper that her house put out called the Rainbow Review from September 1958. Ellen remembers that they put out several issues. The contents were articles by the president and members of the house, about activities like a beach party. 
00:36:38*	Ellen also points out there was an article about a theater party and that it was illustrated by one of their members. Ellen would also write up crossword puzzles. Ellen also sent in a program of a dance festival from May 1958 – called the “Canaveral Capers”.  The festival was dedicated to the successful rocket launches that were made by the U.S. The U.S. was behind Russia in rocket launches. Rainbow house put together a folk dance and Ellen was one of the members (12 all together) who danced. The women all get excited about their time folk dancing. Remember that they had to take 4 semesters of physical education. Tennis, golf, lacrosse, swimming, etc.  
00:36:38*	Edie points out that Queens College didn’t have a golf course so the students would have to go to Kissena Park. Ellen also donated a program for a March 1958 production of Romeo and Juliet presented by the Queens College Theater as part of the Department of Speech.  Ellen googled Gerald Rinestein, a classmate that’d played Romeo, and found out that he’s still acting. 
00:43:20	Women talking about all the memorabilia they saved from when they were younger like essays and papers, awards, fire prevention certificate, poetry contest winning certificate, report cards. 
00:44:41*	Ellen mentions that her sister, 9.5 years older than her, won in 1939 the fire prevention memo for writing the fire prevention essay and it was presented to her in the 1939 world’s fair. She has a medal. Linda mentions that she had a lot of those fire prevention medals, a whole stack. Linda says that’s when she realized she was meant to write. 
00:46:02	The women start wrapping up and talk about where the interview will be posted. 