Darryl Wong lives with his husband and adopted daughter in Flushing. Darryl shares in this interview his passion for activism within local LGBTQ and AIDS advocacy movements. In his interview Mr. Wong draws comparisons between the LGBTQ communities that has affinity and have worked with in Manhattan, Europe, and Africa. He goes onto shares stories of acceptance and aggression toward queer sexuality and people living with HIV in Queens.


00:00:30:     Darryl Wong is born in Miami in 1957. His family moved from Miami to Astoria in 1962.

00:00:41:    Darryl and his family moved to Flushing when he was six years old.

00:01:50:    Darryl shares recollections of early immigration into New York. Only one other Asian family lived in their apartment complex at the time. The population was predominantly Irish Catholic, and German. Asians were mostly living in Chinatown, Long Island, or Westchester, not Queens. He remembers being the only Asian kid in every class and experiencing stereotypes of being called Oriental by students and teachers.

00:04:42:    When Darryl’s father passed, he was required to retrieve his parents' marriage certificates on which the documents identified his parents as “Yellow”. His parents got married in 1949. He speaks of the colonialist mentality that existed in America and Shanghai. Mr. Wong’s mother was from Shanghai. 

00:07:13:     Mr. Wong was taunted and bullied in the schoolyard with children pulling at the edges of their eyes to imply a squinted eye gesture that made fun of his appearance as an Asian. He was also called words such as “chink” or “chinaman”. Most of this bullying stopped when he attended Stuyvesant High School. This is because the Stuyvesant High’s population at the time was mostly Jewish and Chinese.

0:11:12:    Darryl addresses working in the field of HIV and AIDS for the past twenty-five years. He is the co-director of a program that allocates funding and services to everyone living with HIV and AIDS in the city as well as Westchester. He also works in mental health, housing, nutrition talks about the structural barrier that race and gender play on healthcare.

00:13:22:      Mr. Wong studied abroad in France where he realizes how Asians are far more integrated into French society. He compares how Asians are integrated in French society versus American society. He also notices the fashion trends of homosexual men while living in France. Being in France and adapting to their popular culture by reading GQ magazine, led to him questioning his own sexuality.

00:18:54:     Mr. Wong would visit his family in the Village after school during high school. He noticed the aesthetic trends of hyper homosexuality such as chaps during his time in the Village.

00:20:34:      Darryl shares the experience of being forced into heterosexual dating. Mr. Wong left for college at sixteen years old and dated a woman for seven years. They continued to date until he realized the dilemma of not being sexually attracted towards her. During this time, he described that there was pressure to remain in the closet if you wanted to have start family. Many of these eye-opening experiences while living abroad in France led him to start identifying as a bisexual.

00:23:29:     Mr. Wong entered CDC [Center for Disease Control] Vaccination program after college and worked in Africa (Country?). Due to (Country?) being colonized by the French the influence of European sexuality once again surfaced in his life. By then Mr. Wong was a twenty year old with an opportunity to actively explore his sexuality. After returning to his residence in the United States that he shared with his girlfriend and their relationship fell apart.

00:26:03:     Mr. Wong worked for Merrill Lynch which was a predominantly white heterosexual finance firm.  Colleagues would try and set him up on dates with women. He felt social pressures of being in the wrong career and the wrong romantic relationships. During the beginning of AIDS crisis, homosexuality became something to joke about more than before.

00:28:34:     Darryl met his husband Michael in 1985. The two met for the first time in an Asian bar on the East side of Manhattan while he was in his early thirties. At that time Mr. Wong lived in Manhattan while, Michael lived near his Jewish family near Flushing. They moved in together in Flushing in 1990.

00:32:43:     Mr. Wong and Michael marched together in the first ever Queens Pride Parade in 1993 with Michael’s two nieces from Florida who shouted, “We’re here. We’re Queer. Get used to it!”. He explains the complications of using gender pronouns and familial titles. 

00:35:53:     Darryl and Michael prominently displayed a rainbow flag in their house. This overt display of PRIDE symbolism allowed them to meet five homosexual couples in the neighborhood. One of these couples lived only two blocks away and had been a couple for more than forty years.

00:37:25:     There was much talk in Flushing about “wasting syndrome” which was an effect of the AIDS virus. Men who had the syndrome lost weight rapidly and would be shunned as they walked by. These instances occurred during the height of the AIDS epidemic during the late 1980s and continued onto 1990s. 

00:38:41:    The AIDS March on Washington occurred in 1987 and was spearheaded by ACT UP, an organization that lobbied legislators to speed up AIDS related healthcare and work to stem the high AIDS mortality rate. ACT UP’s efforts were directed at the FDA and the federal government to devote more resources to controlling the epidemic by releasing AIDS related drugs. The popular stereotype for developing Aids was being one of the 3 H’s: Haitian, Homosexual, and Hemophiliac.

00:41:32:     Darryl was influenced by Larry Kramer, leader of ACT UP and Vito Russo, author of Celluloid Closet.

00:42:59:     A young white boy Ryan White with the AIDS was denied a blood transplant because of his condition. Ryan who was a hemophiliac passed away in 1990. Government officials were quick to act on his death as a political means because Ryan’s death did not fit with the usual 3 H’s (Haitian, Homosexual, and Hemophiliac). Their political efforts led to the development of the Ryan White Care Act which is on the books to this day.

00:46:12:     Darryl speaks about the fear associated with having AIDS. He was constantly going to funerals and wondered if he'd be next. He got tested in Queens at the Corona health facility and found out he was HIV positive at thirty-four years old.

00:51:02:     Darryl teamed up with APACHA (Asian Pacific Islander Coalition on HIV/AIDS).

00:56:45:    Darryl reported a story about a pre-op transsexual woman not being properly examined by a healthcare practitioner and leaving the office without knowing they should have been diagnosed with prostate cancer.

01:00:32:     There is approval of homosexual couples in Flushing when heterosexual couples see that they share the same values. When a baby is brought home friends and family say hello, bring gifts, and are friendlier than ever before. Darryl reveals the struggles of moving into Flushing as a homosexual couple and explains how a real estate agent attempted to stop them from moving into the neighborhood.

01:05:04*: This portion related to Mr. Wong’s adoption process was excised according to Mr. Wong’s wishes.

01:06:37:      Darryl and Michael were challenged during their decision to adopt a child from China because of their homosexuality. The adoption process took place in 2000. Michael had to write a letter of declaring his heterosexuality.

01:16:09:     Having a daughter in the gay community was frowned upon and looked at as too conventional. Darryl and his husband lost friends when they decided to settle down and have a family.

01:25:19:     There is a rising acceptance of sexual diversity. It is no longer permissible to make fun of homosexuality.

01:26:48:     Darryl speaks about the precarious position Asian in America face as being stereotyped as a model minority. He speaks about how Asian and Whites are always grouped together by statisticians. He refutes the model minority stereotype by talking about the poor 
Socioeconomic conditions in Chinatown.

01:29:25:     Darryl remembers two Asian neighbors running into their homes when they found out that they lived in close proximity to homosexuals. Those two neighbors never spoke to Darryl or his family again. They both assumed that Darryl was married to a woman.

01:30:40:     Darryl shares hopes for equal opportunities in the LGBTQ and AIDS/HIV communities going forward and hopes that society will be better equipped to better deal with racism.

01:38:25:     Darryl reminds the listener of the importance of older generations shaping younger generations. He also speaks about American society’s habit of disregarding the old as unimportant and invaluable. He is satisfied that his daughter is so close to his mom.


