Queens Memory Project Oral History Interview Timecode Outline City: Jamaica Neighborhood (if any):  Date of Interview: 04/19/16 Time Period: 1996-2016 Interviewee Date of Birth: 06/26/96 Name of interviewee: Hikmah Abodunrin Name of interviewer: Arbesh Khan and Reshad Hai Length of interview: 00:59:20 Name of editor: Arbesh Khan Editing software: “Adobe Soundbooth” Timecode Outline Preparer: Arbesh Khan Summary: Hikmah has been living in South Jamaica for the last 7 years. She previously lived in Brooklyn. She is Nigerian and her parents have kept the family close to their culture. She has 4 siblings. She went to I.S. 238, then John Bowne, and is now at Queens College. She likes Queens more than Brooklyn because of the quietness.  00:00:25 – Hikmah has lived in Jamaica, Queens for 7 years. Before that, she lived in Brooklyn. She was born in Nigeria. She left Nigeria at a very young age with her parents. She noticed that there was a lack of a system in Nigeria. She moved to Queens in 2009. She switched while in middle school.  00:02:45 – She felt alone in Jamaica at first. But, she found that a lot of her neighbors were kids of immigrants. She was able to get friends as time went by.  00:04:15 – Her favorite memory was a school trip to a farmer’s market. Hikmah didn’t know the difference between organic and nonorganic foods. She enjoyed the market because she bought ingredients that she and her friends used them for a soup.  00:06:00 – She went to I.S. 238. In Queens. Her school had a huge playground. She had to wear a uniform, which she liked because no one could judge her for her fashion. Her school had lockers. She did drama in school along with chorus.   00:09:45 – she went to John Bowne High School. It’s right behind Queens College. She liked high school because it had the programs she was interested in like the Doshi program. Her favorite memory was going to a school party. She took the bus to get to school.  00:13:30 – She was late for her SATs because of the MTA. She didn’t have enough money for the bus fare.  00:16:00 – she picked Queens college because it has neuroscience, her subject of choice. She really likes Queens College. It resembles other colleges outside the city. She chose neuroscience because of her interest in the brain. She wants to gain the knowledge to help underprivileged people. Her major goal in life is to build a hospital in Nigeria.   00:21:50 – her parents were born in Nigeria. She has 4 siblings. She has a brother who went to Islamic school in South Africa and is now training to become a pilot. All of her siblings were born in New York. She has a sister who wants to become a teacher. She has another sister who wants to become a doctor. Her youngest sister is only 7. When they used to live in Brooklyn, her sister lost her bike. It was the last bike their mother bought for them because their bikes kept getting stolen.  00:25:00 – Her parents kept the family close to Nigerian culture. All of the children would always do house chores. During parties, her mom made them greet everyone they met. Someone had to fetch water, wash the dishes, wash the clothes. They ate traditional Nigerian food, jollof rice, rice and stew, pounded yam. Her favorite Nigerian dish is pounded yam and spinach. There are more Nigerians in Brooklyn than in Queens. She and her family go to Brooklyn for prayer services.  00:32:00 – her parents speak to her in Yoruba. She and her siblings reply usually in English. Yoruba has a do-re-mi tone and her family friends make fun of her tone. Her brother came back from South Africa with a South African accent and Hikmah thought it was ridiculous. Her siblings are in Nigeria right now.  00:37:00 – Her family celebrate the Muslim holidays and birthdays. In Nigeria, there are huge holidays that give two weeks off. The country celebrates Muslim and Christian holidays. For Eid, she and her family cook and head to the mosque early in the morning. They wear their traditional outfits on Eid.  00:44:00 – She and her family go to a mosque in Coney Island even after moving to Jamaica. She noticed people are starting to move out of the area. Now, she lives in the southside of Jamaica. It is commonly thought of as the ghetto but she doesn’t think it is.  She likes Queens more because it is less hectic.  00:50:00 – She likes the people she has met at the Queens College Muslim Students Association. It has felt homely here. The people there have given her purpose. She can talk about anything from serious things to the nonsensical with her friends.   