~ Queens Library QUEENS &tn"rA yoMr lfft¥ Queens Memory Project CDLLEGE Submission Information Form 30th Ave project interview: Alberstadt et al Date of interview: July 13, 2011 Time period(s) discussed in interview: Name of interviewer: Annabel Short Name of interviewees: Keith Alberstadt, Jesse Joyce, Andy Hendrickson [listed in order from 1 to r in the photograph that accompanies this interview] Location where interview took place (specific address if possible): Astoria Brewhouse, 2850 31st St, Astoria, NY 11102 Places discussed in interview: Astoria People discussed in interview: Organizations discussed in interview: Make and model ofrecorder used: Olympus Linear PCM Recorder LS-10 Language(s) used in interview: English Additional Notes: any or all of the following information: Length of time interviewee has lived in the neighborhood, Ethnic background, Occupation, Housing type (renting an apartment, owning a house, etc), Age of interviewer and/or age of interviewee, Particular involvements with neighborhood (church, civic involvement), Context for the interview (conducted for QtvfP, a class, personal project, etc) Jesse Joyce, Andy Hendrickson, Keith Alberstadt are all comedians who live in Astoria. They talk about why a lot of comedians live in Astoria (it's easy to get away -by car or air -is one reason); what makes a successful comedian; and comedians who they do and do not admire. Context of interview: "30th Ave -A year in the life of a street" project (www.30thAve.org). Transcript notes for research Jesse Joyce (JJ): I've performed for British crowds in Singapore and Switzerland before. They're horrible. Every one of them. It's the comedy sensibility that seems so deeply rooted in the idea that the funniest thing you could do is be a dude in a dress. Andy Hendrickson (AH): I enjoyed England. I went around to different venues and stuff, I had a good time. And I didn't have any extreme heckling. Keith Alberstadt (KA): It sounds cliche, but I was the youngest in the family and kind of starved for attention, always enjoyed making people laugh. Sat on the bench on the baseball team but always made people laugh. I hosted a talent show in high school and loved it. So I started doing it. Bombed miserably for about five years through college and then things started to get better. That was Nashville Tennessee, home of the mighty commodores. AH: My story is pretty much exactly the same. I was the baby of the family. I also think it was because we moved around a lot. I was a navy brat, so I think that was how I ended up being funny. Then in Atlanta I saw a guy who taught a comedy class -I had to pay to motivate myself basically. JJ: We all spent thanksgiving together a couple of years ago and saw his first stand up video. It was terrible. We were at his mom's house and found the video of the first time. AH: I still use all those jokes too. JJ: Everybody's awful the first year or two, or three. You only get good at it after years and years of practice. KA: The reason why it's so fun and motivating for us and rewarding is because we remember how bad it used to be, and how more shows were bad than good. And now we have more shows that are good than bad, we appreciate our accomplishments more because we know where we came from. JJ: There is a badge of honor. We've known each other for around 8 years, so we kind of respect the fact that we were in the trenches together. What makes a comedian a good comedian is just doing it for ever. Nobody gets really good at comedy until they've been doing it for around 20 to 25 years. I mean every dude that we respect is in their 40s. All of them. They've all been doing it for 25 years. Yes, most comedians are male. Maybe it's about 10 per cent of comedians are women. Guys are more analytical I think, maybe. It's also kind of an alpha thing to want to do with your life. To feel the need to be on the stage with amplified sound and lighting and all the other people sitting on tiny chairs in the dark. Women don't seem to have that need. I read a GQ article about that. There was also a point when they said women have never had to develop a sense of humor, it's not a thing that they needed to do socially. Because women can get in the door any number of other ways. But as a guy it's kind of important if you want to impress a girl if you're not like fast, or strong. So you develop a sense of humor. AH: Yes that used to be the only way I met girls. I used to be an awkward guy. But I was kind of funny, from elementary school up through beginnings of high school till I started to figure it out. But comedy was definitely important. JJ: Yes and I was moving around a lot too, and that really hones your sense of humor, so you feel you have to break the ice with like 30 new kids in this class, and the best way to do it is probably to make them laugh. A sense of humor becomes a priority for a guy and it's not so much a premium for young girls growing up -like "I've got to be a jackass in class". AH: I started comedy when I was 28. I'm 40 now. I did a bunch of stuff, I made signs, I worked for an exhibit company doing graphics. JJ: And I don't want to speak for you but it's not like you didn't know that you were funny. It's just a giant leap from being a funny dude to thinking right I'm going to be a comedian. AH: And I was in Atlanta where there was one comedy club, there was no-where to get up. Even when I decided to do it we had to make our own places to do shows. JJ: You started in your mid-twenties didn't you? KA: Well I started in college but I was more enamored with the college life and drinking beers and hanging out and chasing girls. JJ: Funny that's never worn off. KA: Then I got bit by that bug and just kept doing it. That's another thing that makes a good comic you keep that persistence, keep going back, get knocked down and get back out there. AH: Once you've been doing it for a certain amount of years your brain starts thinking in comedy terms. I mean everything, you think can I turn that into a joke? JJ: Yes, I'll at times think of a funny word for a punch-line that I just keep until I need it. KA: Also everybody you meet, mostly girls, assumes that everything you say or do will be used against them on stage. They will get turned into a bit. And you say "no of course not" and then you do. You can't go to a wedding or a class reunion or whatever and you can'tjust be a normal person having a conversation, people are always like "you're going to use this aren't you?" JJ: Andy and I flew back from Shanghai together and there was a mid-western couple sitting next to us. They were like "what do you guys do for a living" and we said that we sold those springs in a pen, just because we didn't want 17 hours of them saying "you're going to put this in your act". JJ: Some people are really good at it but the lifestyle wears them down after years. Lots of guys I know who really were funny dudes decided to go and work in TV, or do something else. So it's the combination of being good at it and keep pushing through the bullshit of the lifestyle. We're gone all the time. KA: When the industry kicks us in the nuts we have to remind ourselves that it's actually a blessing that it's difficult. Because ifit weren't, we'd have a thousand more comics. Which would make it more of a saturated market than it is. So because it's hard to get stage time, and there's all the travel, that's what helps the people who are really dedicated to rise above the ones who aren't. JJ: There are many times when I don't feel like getting up on the stage. But once I get the first laugh I'm right in there. KA: One time I had to drive seven hours straight to another show and there wasn't even enough time to go to the hotel but as soon as you're on the stage that's fine. AH: it also works the other way though as well, like if you haven't been performing for say four or five days, you feel you just have to get back onstage. JJ: We were in Iraq a month together [all three have performed for the troops] AH: Well I like to just make jokes about how great it is back at home, with the TV, hanging out a bars. JJ: There's this joke a comedian would say to 600 guys who'd been there for nine months, hey when you get home don'tjustjump on your wife because it's you who hasn't had sex all in a while, not her. They're a great audience because they're just bored and they want someone to distract them from it, so those are the easiest shows ever. Armed Forces Entertainment pays us. I used to be on Bob and Tom before, a massive syndicated show in the bread basket of America and their listeners are very wholesome, troop-supporting people so right before I went to Iraq they gave me a duffel bag of stuff to give to the troops. We gave it away in three days because we didn't want to carrying it around all month long. AH: [Astoria is good because] for the most part it's easy to get in and out of Manhattan, and then there's parking and you can also get out onto the highway pretty quick you just cross the Triborough or RFK or whatever they call it now. So that's great. To know you can just cross a couple of bridges and you're out there. JJ: You know how you're meant to get to the airport an hour before the flight. I leave my apartment an hour before the flight because it just takes you right to La Guardia. KA: There's the guy who sells books just here on 30th Ave and 31st Street. And some of the books are really good. AH: the internet has changed everything. A guy was trying to predict the future of comedy ten years from now and said how a lot of the old school guys will die out because they're not going to be able to adapt to the new media. Everything's getting segmented and broken down to little pieces and there's no mainstream way to make it anymore. People develop a following online. And people are starting to use multimedia in their shows -I don't want to have to do that stuff. KA: All it takes is one video, whether it's a fake commercial or skit or bit from your standup act to go viral. Anjelah Johnson is a comedian based in LA who sells out everywhere. And she just posted a You Tube video joke about a nail salon and it went global. AH: Not funny! KA: I think she's adorable. JJ: I decided a long time ago that I don't want to cater to as big an audience as possible. Dane Cook and guys like that, they cater to as many people as possible. There's nobody who doesn't get it but it's not very sophisticated, its' just on one level. The number one demographic that doesn't seem to appreciate me are women in their late fifties. So the people who do come out and see me, they really like what I do. But I mean, Louis CK has a great following and so do guys who have put a cap on what they're going to do because they're edgier, darker or whatever. AH: On the other hand there's Keith. He works clean. As in more digestible for a larger audience. Clean can open up a lot of opportunities. KA: Yes, I don't turn many people off. Andy: [re recent criticisms of Tracy Morgan for homophobic jokes]. I think you should be able to say whatever you want to say. But what he said was mean. JJ: What no-body seems to talk about is that what he said is not funny. That's the point. Louis CK has phenomenal jokes about siding with child molesters and its fucking great because he's funny. There would be nothing wrong with what he said if the comedy outweighed the shitty thing he said. But it didn't because he's not a funny dude. People who write for him on 30 Rock and Sat Night Live, they're funny. And he's a good goofy comedic actor guy. But he is a terribly un-funny human being. When he's on his own, nobody wants to hear his own thoughts on something. It's the same thing I have with Michael Richards. He happens to be a racist and he's a shitty comic. And the fact that he's not a good comic means that racist shit just comes out of his mind. Same thing with John Mayer who got into trouble saying something vaguely racist in Playboy. He was trying to be funny but he's not good enough at funny to pull it off, so it just came off as racist. The Comedy Central Roasts are as racist and homophobic and anti-Semitic and sexist as you could possibly get. And yet no-one ever calls out an individual and says that was inappropriate. Because the humor outweighs the sentiment. KA: Plus people understand it's a roast and so they understand it's meant to be offensive and they accept it as such. People at Tracy's show they should know that it's not to be taken seriously. I could go on for ever about how this country is on eggshells and how you can't say things. You can have ten thousand people who don't have a problem with something then all it takes is one person to have a problem with it all of a sudden there's a controversy. All it takes is one person to say 'he should lose his job'. AH: Social Media means things can get taken out of context too. JJ: Yes in fairness there's no recording of him saying that. So what I will say in favor of Tracy Morgan is that his comments could very easily have been taken out of context. It's third hand. It's a dude who was at the show who wrote it on his Facebook page and everybody just ran with it. I think he has done a good job of squelching it though as best as he could, apologizing etc. KA: Because he had to. JJ: Louis CK is the best guy doing it these days. Just because he's so brutally honest. He really has mastered the ability to take any topic regardless of whether or not you agree with it and you can't deny that you see his point. You can't argue with the logic of the joke and it's flawless. So even if you disagree with it you can still laugh at it because he's walked you through the logic in his head. KA: Which is what Stanhope does but Louis is much more likeable than Stanhope, which helps a lot. You don't have to be likeable but you can appeal to a much bigger percentage of the crowd if you are -people are more likely to go along with your joke. JJ: There are plenty of comics who set out to be unlikeable but that makes it harder to do topics that the crowd might not be on board with. KA: What's troubling in NYC to me is a lot of people who take pride in not being likeable. It's like the more people who don't laugh. A lot of northwest comics are like that too, but especially here. They take pride in walking the crowd, you know so that somebody walked out, and they take pride in the fact they offended somebody -like aren't I edgy, aren't I rebellious, and I think well you're not doing anything, how is that succeeding? JJ: That's in part because some of the popular comics have made it that way but that's only because they're so skilled at doing it. Now every open mic-er had a super-edgy rape joke or an AIDS button that they hit. But they're not yet skilled enough as comedians to bring that up. JJ: I like Chappelle and Jon Stewart, always a favorite of mine. I think Jon Stewart is a good example of sticking with it. You never know when something's going to happen. I saw Jon Stewart when I had been doing standup for like 6 months, like 13 years ago, I saw him at a comedy club. He had nothing going on career-wise. It was after he'd had his show on MTV 7-8 years after that but everyone else had forgotten it. So he was just right in the middle of doing what we do, which is just being a guy on the road in a fucking club and he was great. I was like man this guy should be big. He did that show and then two years later he still was just doing those things, and there were still another five years before he got the Daily Show. That club was packed but not sure if it was packed because of him or because it was a Saturday. He crushed. He had a leather jacket and smoked cigarettes and had a six pack of Heineken on stage with him. But the point is you never know when the Daily Show is going to come around the corner. He just auditioned for that, you know what I mean, and now he's influencing global politics and hosting the Oscars and doing the white house correspondents dinner. AH: I don't know how great Astoria is for comedy. I've never been to a really great comedy show here. JJ: You know what Astoria is where they live but it's not where we want to perform. KA: But I will say this. Every time I go to a show in Astoria, whether it's here or in the beer garden or in Rest Au Rant, the shows are not stellar or off the charts but it's such a good time, the camaraderie, the hang-out time with the other comedians talking shop or whatever, it's really, really fun. You go to Manhattan and a comedy club you might see friends you want to hang out with but a lot of times you can't really talk because it's such a confined space and the noise is going to carry off to the showroom. JJ: Another reason why Astoria shows may not be where it's at is the other point you made, that this is such an ethnically diverse spot. Is the Bangladeshi couple next door or are the Sudanese people nearby going to come to my show? Like Brooklyn is so kind of hip and homogenous that shows there kind of make more sense. Shows in Astoria ... are not altogether that logical. 