Queens Memory Project
Oral History Interview Timecode Outline


City:				Richmond Hill, New York
Neighborhood:		Richmond Hill
Date of Interview:		May 27, 2017
Time Period:			1983 – 2017
Interviewee Date of Birth:	April 3, 1983
Name of Interviewee:		Mohamed Q. Amin
Name of Interviewer: 		Martha Knutzen
Length of Interview:		02:09:40
Name of Editor:		M Alam
Editing Software:		Adobe Soundbooth
Timecode Outline Preparer:	Martha Knutzen


Summary: 	Mohamed Q. Amin was born in Guyana, and came to live in Far Rockaway in January 1996 when he was twelve. He went to junior high and high school in Far Rockaway.  He went to college at LaGuardia Community College in Long Island City and graduated from Queens College in Flushing. He moved to Richmond Hill during this time when he purchased a house with his parents.  Mohamed is the founder and executive director of the Caribbean Equality Project, an LGBTQ organization whose purpose is to empower and educate the Caribbean LGBTQ population in New York and inform outside communities about the Caribbean LGBTQ community.   This is an all-volunteer organization and Mohamed is also currently employed as a bank supervisor.  He currently lives with his partner and two sisters in Richmond Hills.  Mohamed’s brother is an international dancer known as Zaman. Key events that led to Mr. Amin’s activism are his experience as a Muslim living through the September 11th events in New York City and the gay bashing of his brother in a Richmond Hill bar in 2013. 	

00:00: 30
He was born on April 3, 1983 in Guyana, South America.  His mother and father are Guyanese.  They speak English and Guyanese Creole. His family’s religion is Muslim. He has a partner, who was born in Trinidad. His partners’ parents are Trinidadian and Guyanese. They have been together twelve years.

00:02:28
He came to New York City from Guyana to live in the Far Rockaway on January 10, 1996 during a large snow storm.   He went to junior high and high school in Far Rockaway and lived in the neighborhood until he was twenty-two years old.   His experience as an organizer and leader began in high school. He was the president of his school government club and he worked to mobilize students to coexist who were from different cultures.   He was also homecoming king, on the year book committee, and was very active in art.  His high school group wanted to make a difference and understood the importance of forming cross cultural bonds and bringing the school together against the violence they faced in the school. He learned it doesn’t matter what your background is, you can make a difference.
00:07:13
When Mohamed was a high school sophomore, he was chosen by his art teacher to represent his high school at an art exhibit at the Queens Museum Art exhibit by artist Dawoud Bey. When he traveled to the Museum, it was the first time he saw many parts of Queens, including the Unisphere.  He was encouraged to participate in New York as an young artist and encouraged to be part of the community’s future. 
00:11:21
Mohamed graduated in the top 10 of his class with his friends. They organized and mobilized, with the encouragement of his teachers at Far Rockaway High School, during his senior year there.  That experience provided him the confidence to succeed later as a leader. 
00:12:22
By now, he lived in the 1450 Gateway Apartments where his father helped manage the building.  After graduating high school, he explored many parts of the New York City by traveling everywhere he could with his high school friends on public transportation.  They explored all of Manhattan, including the theatre district and attended shows.  Although he experienced racism and classism, it did not stop the group from exploring many parts of NYC.
00:14:38
Mohamed was accepted into SUNY Buffalo, but his father did not allow him to attend a college so far away from home.  Instead, he attended LaGuardia Community College in Long Island City.  That meant he had a commute of three hours, getting there by the A train and the 7 subway through Manhattan.  Going to college, he learned to navigate things like bank accounts, travel, and other aspects of living in New York City.   He taught that to his parents and his younger brother and two sisters.  
00:20:53
During this time, 2001, when he was in college, it was difficult for him to come to terms with his internal struggles about being gay.  There was a lot of violence against gays and he felt responsible to his family. He and his sisters and brothers were all successful graduates of Far Rockaway High School. He and his father had different values and he wanted to participate more in NYC culture and life.  His father had a steady job and could save money and provide economic stability and a good future for his family. His mother has always been a source of support for him and all his brothers and sisters. Mohamed also worked during high school.
00:25:18*

9/11/2001 was a pivotal and traumatizing event for Mohamed.  It occurred on his second day of college, and he spent hours and his entire allowance getting home that day.  During the rest of the year in college, he faced many overt displays of discrimination, due to his name, his Muslim religion and his status as an immigrant. He faced general ignorance about the Muslim community from his class-mates.  He spoke out against it, but felt very isolated. [quote about being a Muslim will never be the same after 9/11 at 31:00-32:13]

00:34:16
 He was given a car after he graduated from high school.  He took his parents and family everywhere until his father learned to drive.  It was during this time that he discovered Richmond Hill’s Guyanese population.
00:36:15*
He finished LaGuardia after he convinced his friend, Mayesha to go there.  They went together and supported each other as they went through the school.  They were not supported by any organization or school authorities at LaGuardia.  His friend also supported him when he came out to her as gay during the summer of 2001. He encountered a lot of discrimination for being Muslim.  [quote about his self-identity and reflections about the fears of his community in the aftermath of 9/11, especially thinking he should change his name at 39:15-41:42. ]
00:41:50
He worked throughout college as a receptionist at a beauty salon. He had worked at a discount store before then.  He took banking classes and took a bank teller course.  He applied for a job at many banks and eventually got a job at the New York Community Bank in 2003. His job was located at the Pathmark at 92nd and also at Atlantic Avenue in Far Rockaway. He worked at NYCB for eight years, both at Howard Beach and Pathmark.  He took a break from school after LaGuardia to work full-time between 2004 and 2005.
00:46:45*
He began meeting gay people through AOL chat rooms in 2004. He began to attend hangouts in Queens, Manhattan and Astoria.  [ quote at 48:04-49:10 about needing to get away from home and Far Rockaway to come out as gay to his family and the difficulties he faced during this time -period].
00:49:11*
Mohamed’s father helped him purchase a home in South Ozone Park, Richmond Hill in May 2005.  It would be for him and his sisters to move into eventually. Richmond Hill was close to his Caribbean, Guyanese community and near his job. Richmond Hill has really transformed since then.  He was reintegrated back into his Guyanese culture, but there was a lot of race discrimination and homophobia in Richmond Hill. There were no gay bars, but he met gay people at house parties where he could meet Caribbean gay people.  [See 52:40 for a quote]. The bars occasionally had a space for gay people, but it was very uncomfortable to go to them. 
00:54:55*
He attended Queens College in Flushing, New York to complete his Bachelor’s Degree in 2006.  He worked full time and went to school full time.  He met his partner, Anoop, then on an AOL chat line.  It was the safest way to meet gay people. He still faced a lot of discrimination in Richmond Hill when he brought his gay friends there. Called an “auntie man” in Richmond Hill [quote at 59:07] [Quote at 56:40- 59:25 describes his experience in Richmond Hill during this time].
00:59
He is part of the change towards more tolerance now.  He met Caribbean queer people through a social club named the Curry Club and they would party in the City because no one felt safe in Queens. It made him realize how proud he could be as a Caribbean LGBT person.  This was for him the 2005-6-time period, although the group had existed before then. He was not out to his family, school or work. He was living with his partner and introduced him to his family as his roommate.
01:02:57*
He came out to his parents when he was 26 in 2009. He was out to his siblings and they were supportive.  [Clip about coming out to his parents is at 1:03:00-1:13].  It was more difficult for his parents, especially his father, although they have become supportive over time. He felt initially like he had “broken his family…” [at 1:07]. As he transitioned to his own acceptance he needed to transition his parents to understand him [at 1:10]. He had “conditional love” from his parents as they loved him but had difficulty understanding this new part of him. [at 1:11-1:13] He struggled daily to come out to people.  You come out every day until today. [at 1:13:08-14]. He looks for understanding, not acceptance.  By “understanding” he means “people should understand how they play a role in his safety and equality.” [at 1:14:20].  
01:15:00
His sisters live with him in Richmond Hill and his brother lives with his parents.  One of his sisters has a Master’s degree and is a teacher at Rosa Parks School in Queens.  His other sister works at Queens College.  He is a supervisor at TD Bank.
01:16:37*
His brother is also gay and had a difficult time talking about it with Mohamed and his family.  His brother was outed. Mohamed explains how what happened to his brother was a form of violence, “Outing is violence” [see 1:18 -1:19:06]. 
1:19:40
In 2010, he began to get more active politically, to unite Caribbean people and the LGBT community.  He got involved with Pride in Manhattan. He was recruited by Tina, who hosted social parties for Caribbean people, to organize a Caribbean contingent for Pride in Manhattan. He wanted to do more than social events.  His goal was to create educational opportunities for the Caribbean community, the queer community and the general community throughout New York.
01:23:31
Today, his brother is the internationally known dancer, Zaman.  He also dances as the drag queen named Sundari Indian-Goddess and has, through his talent as a professional dancer, won many awards for his performances, which combine his Indo-Caribbean culture with his training in Kathak, Orissi, Bollywood, Bhangra and Chutney dances.  He is the very first to perform his unique blend of these dances to both queer, Caribbean and international audiences.
01:25:00
Mohamed and his brother participated in the Queens Pride Parade in 2013. He could integrate both his identities as an LGBT person and an immigrant member of the Caribbean community and he always holds both the flags of Guyana and the LGBT communities when he marches.  At the same event, his brother, as Sundari Indian-Goddess, won the Queene award as the best drag entertainment along with another performer named Felicia.  It was the first time tassa drums were played at Queens Pride. [See 1:27].  They are breaking down the walls of drag entertainment to the broader community.  He stays involved in Queens Pride until now.
01:30:00*
An event that changed his whole family occurred in June of 2013.  His partner entered a cooking contest at a bar named ‘Players’ in Richmond Hill.  ‘Players’ was located on 129th Liberty Avenue.  The MC identified the gay group in the bar and the environment became very toxic.  When his partner won the second prize award, a man called them an “auntie man.”  Mohamed asked him to stop and was pushed by the man. His partner went to his defense.  They were attacked by the tassa players with their drum sticks.  They hit his brother with the trophy. No one helped them at the bar.  The bar manager hid the assailant.  The police were dismissive.  His parents learned about while they were in Guyana from a newspaper report about the incident.  This anti-gay incident in Richmond Hill, involving his partner and brother mobilized Mohamed and his family.  They organized a rally through the help of non-profits in Richmond Hill, including the Indo Caribbean Alliance. AVP, NYC Anti-Violence project helped his family with counseling around the event for the next year. Key clip for gay bashing in Richmond Hill is 1:30-1:36. 
01:38:00*
The assault in Richmond Hill led to the formation of the Caribbean Equality Project.  It was formed as a non-profit organization in January 2015. See 1:40 for purpose of CEP.  See 1:41 for purpose of AVP. AVP helped with lawyers and he received professional counseling in Jackson Heights. Mohamed also took their speakers bureau training.  He “found his voice” and could express what happened to him and mobilize the Caribbean Equality Project in 2014. See clip from 1:40-1:44 about formation of the CEP. 
01:44:21*
The other founders of C.E.P. are Krishna and Andy.  It’s an all-volunteer organization.  They respond to incidents of violence, educate the community, and hold monthly support groups.  They launched publicly on June 25, 2015, the same day the Supreme Court made same-sex marriage legal in the United States.  That created a synergy of support for CEP. 1:46-1:50 clip about formation of the Caribbean Equality Project. 
01:50:00*
In 2017, they are going to be in the Manhattan Pride Parade for the first time. It is especially important this year because under Trump our health care, immigrants and being LGBT are all threatened. He has received a lot of publicity for CEP.  In 2016, he finally was granted entrance in the Phagwah parade, a Hindu celebration of the Spring, the first time there was an LGBT presence in this Parade. It took four years to get permission to join the parade. See 1:57-1:57:40  for what it meant to be in the Phagwah Parade.
01:58:00*
Guyanese people are the second largest community in New York City.  Unchained is the first support group for queer Caribbean anywhere.  They have not found another group like theirs in the country.  They support LGBT organizations in the Caribbean countries.  Other organizations in NYC support them.  Council member Dromm has provided key support. The support of Council member Dromm’s is very critical to their success.   They have a YouTube channel that shows “My Truth My Story”, which interviews LGBT Caribbean people.  The C.E.P. received an award in May 2017 for their work to help celebrate the 25th Anniversary of Queens Pride.   See 2:02-03 for the importance of Daniel Dromm’s activism.
02:03:37
Mohamed hopes for the future. He believes that younger people will want to continue the work of C.E.P. They have touched lives throughout the world.  They quantify their growth through social media data.  Facebook has engaged 3-4,000 people.  The C.E.P.’s YouTube channel is viewed daily. C.E.P. has spread its message through Instagram and local and regional press including some West Indian newspapers.  They can document their history through the Queens Memory Project and other archives. [ clip at 2:03-2:04 about the meaning of CEP. ]
	

		

	








PAGE  


PAGE  1




