Queens Memory Project
Oral History Interview Timecode Outline
City: Ozone Park
Neighborhood (if any):
Interviewer: Nikki Annecco
Interviewee: Joe Annecco
Interview Date: November 25, 2017
Interviewee’s Date of Birth:
Length of Interview: 16 min 32 sec
Editing Software: 
Timecode Outline Preparer: Toby Ahn
Summary:  In this interview, Joe Annecco has discussed about how his neighborhood changed a lot when it came to diversity. He also discussed about his experience in different neighborhood before when moved to his recently new house. He talked about how his neighbors started to change and how it shows that kids and adults are changing their lifestyle as they grow older.
00:00:13	Joe rented in his grandmother’s apartment and he moved out and bought his own house. 
00:00:23	Joe’s grandmother’s apartment was built in 1928 and the house was very expensive before and now if they were to sell it. He lived there for 14 years and he was living with his mother, father, and his two sisters before they moved out.
00:01:03	When Joe bought his new house, he lived with his mother, father, his two sisters, and their new dog. 
00:01:13	the thing that made the house special to them was that fact that it was really spacious and a lot of family members. It was the perfect place for them to play hide and seek. The backyard was really big that the kids in their block used to go there with their bikes and hang out.
00:01:39	the reason why they are moving out of their house was because his father found another house that was bigger and they bought that house afterwards. The new house consists of having a bigger backyard and swimming pool. 
00:01:53	Joe liked both of the houses because he had memorable memories with his friends and family hanging out in both houses.
00:02:15	everyone in Ozone Park, in his neighborhood, knew each other. Everyone used to go to each other’s’ house and they used to eat and drink there. It didn’t matter who you were, they would have taken care of you.
00:02:26	When Joe got older, Joe noticed that the old family moved out because the younger kids grew up. When the younger family moved into the neighborhood, they didn’t have a tight relationship with them. 
00:02:51	the people in his neighborhood back then were mostly Italian. When they moved out, other nationality from different countries came in. The neighborhood was more diverse. 
00:03:07	the neighborhood was mostly middle class people living there; the neighbors were also nice. When other kids from the block were to come to their house, they would have fed them. The neighbors treated each other more like a family; it was more family-oriented.
00:04:28	the biggest change in the neighborhood was the kids because back then, the kids were to play outside in the block playing sports and games with each other. However, now the kids usually stay at home and play with their cellphones and television games. 
00:05:00	Joe believes that property values are going really high. Everything is getting more advance and better than before, but it is getting more expensive. The casino that was recently built in the neighborhood actually made the neighborhood’s appearance look better. 
00:05:36	Joe’s neighborhood consists of more people now. When more people came into the neighborhood, they needed to build more houses. So they have to get rid some of the fields in the parks since no one was playing in it and create houses there.
00:06:13	back then, kids used leave their bikes on the street without any locks attached to it. Now, they have to lock their bikes because people usually steal a bike if it was left alone.
00:07:23	in the past, they used to have the green bus lines, which is now the MTA. They either would have a cab, bicycle, or walk to other places. Joe doesn’t ride a bike anymore and he is still walks to get to other places.
00:08:06	in the past, Joe’s mother or father drove Joe to work or he had to walk to work if they were busy. 
00:08:27	in the past, the neighborhood only had 3 buses and cabs. Today, there are a lot of buses, trains, and other cab corporations.   
00:08:50	back in the day, Ozone Park was a unique place to grow up. Everyone knew each other. There was hardly any traffic, so the kids were playing in the street till night time.
00:09:59	everyone knew each other by their first name. Today, Joe feels like no one knows each other anymore because the neighborhood is getting overpopulated.	
00:10:23	while growing up in Ozone Park, there were 90% Catholic. Now, everyone is Catholic in the neighborhood. Joe went to Catholic school for 8 years; he was disciplined a lot there, but he believes that it made him into a better person.
00:10:46	Joe was more religious back then because he had to go to church. Today, he goes to church in his house. 
00:10:59	Today, everyone has their own religion; they practice whatever they want to practice. 
00:11:11	Joe and his sister went to Catholic school called Nativity. Joe went there for 8 years and his sister went there for 5 years. His mother and Father thought that Catholic School was safer than public school back in the day.

