Queens Memory Project
Oral History Interview Timecode Outline

City:					Lindenwood
Neighborhood:			
Date of Interview:			November 25, 2017 
Time Period:				1980’s - 2017
Interviewee Date of Birth:		Unknown 
Name of interviewee:			Penny Annecco 
Name of Interviewer:			Priscilla Morales 
Length of Interview:			0 hours, 12 minutes, 52 seconds
Name of Editor:
Editing software:			Adobe Soundbooth 
Timecode Outline Preparer:		Adrianna Kumar 

Summary:  Penny Annecco has been a Queens resident since she was three years old and moved from Canarsie, Brooklyn to Lindenwood, Queens. She lived in her Queens apartment for twenty years with her parents, and when she got married, she remained in the neighborhood. While she was growing up, she says her community was very close-knit and everyone knew each other. Over time, she found the biggest change to occur was the change in demographics. She also talks about  changes in safety, schools, types of shopping areas, transportation and landscape. Overall, Penny wishes the neighborhood would stay the same in the years ahead. 
00:00:17               When she was three years old, Penny and her parents from moved Canarsie, Brooklyn to Lindenwood, Queens with her parents. The apartment’s rent was $1,600 dollars a month and the apartment contained two bedrooms, two bathrooms, a living room, and a dining room.
00:01:10        Penny says the neighborhood had a “community feeling” where everyone knew each other.  Lindenwood was a completely Jewish or Catholic neighborhood at the time and as a Jew, Penny felt like a typical resident. Penny explains that one of the reasons the neighborhood has changed is because a majority of people gradually began moving to Florida and Long Island.
00:02:44 Walter Ward was a politician and New York City councilman who lived in and represented the neighborhoods of Lindenwood, South Ozone Park, and Howard Beach from 1968 – 1993. P.S.232 was named after the retired councilman.

00:03:15    Over time, Penny says the biggest change in the neighborhood is the demographics. The neighborhood began to be more diverse, and as a result, more cultured. 
00:04:19  Over time, the safety of the neighborhood has changed as well. Unlike before, it is not safe to leave your door open anymore. 
00:04:41   While she was growing up, Mrs. Annecco says there were a lot of small businesses, as opposed to the big franchises there are now (i.e: Rite Aid). 
00:05:07  Penny says the biggest difference between how she grew up and how her kids grew up was playing outside. She and her friends played games, such as hopscotch, at the park from sunrise to sunset. Back then, there were no distractions such as a cell phones and video games, so kids were much more social and vibrant than they are now. 
00:06:10    Penny says  transportation remains are pretty much the same. The MTA (formerly known as the ‘Green Bus Line’) remain one of the most used means of transportation. The biggest difference is the use of taxi services such as Uber. 
00:07:10   Penny says what makes this neighborhood unique from others is that it’s like a little village within a city. Living in Lindenwood was like a “little taste of suburbia”. Two of the main attractions were the pool club and tennis court. However, once the pool club disappeared, she explains the neighborhood changed for the worse. 
00:08:32  Penny attended Public School 232 for grades k-6, Middle School 202 for grades 7-9, and John Adams High School. One major difference between schooling now and then is that, in Penny’s opinion, testing is made to be more difficult (i.e: common core). College education also plays a huge role, especially in the lives of young girls, today. In Penny’s day, most girls went to secretarial schools instead of college while today, it is the opposite. 
00:10:19  Penny describes an unfortunate incident that occurred at New Park Pizza on Crossbay Blvd.  An African American male was chased by Caucasian males out of the pizzeria and onto the Belt Parkway where he was killed by a passing vehicle. Before this incident, the neighborhood wasn’t that well known by people, but this caused the media’s attention to turn towards Lindenwood. There were protests due to the fact that it was a racially charged incident.
00:11:16  During Penny’s childhood, there were many trees, swamps, playgrounds and many places to run around freely. These places have since been replaced with buildings and other manmade objects. 
00:12:07      Penny hopes that Lindenwood stays the same in the years to come. She describes this part of Queens as “nice and pretty” and would like it to stay that way. 


