~ Queens Library QUEENS &tn"rA yoMr lfft¥ Queens Memory Project CDLLEGE Submission Information Form 301h Ave project interview: Frank Arcabascio Date of interview: Feb 18, 2011 Time period(s) discussed in interview: 1971-2011 Name of interviewer: Annabel Short Name of interviewee: Frank Arcabascio Location where interview took place (specific address if possible): Redken Saloon Salon, 36-17 30th Avenue Astoria, NY 11103-4388 Places discussed in interview: Astoria, especially 30th A venue; Jackson Heights. Redken Saloon Salon on 30th Ave, Joseph's Hair Place on Astoria Boulevard People discussed in interview: Organizations discussed in interview: 30th A venue Business Association (www.30aba.com) Make and model ofrecorder used: Olympus Linear PCM Recorder LS-10 Language(s) used in interview: English Additional Notes: any or all of the following information: Length of time interviewee has lived in the neighborhood, Ethnic background, Occupation, Housing type (renting an apartment, owning a house, etc), Age of interviewer and/or age of interviewee, Particular involvements with neighborhood (church, civic involvement), Context for the interview (conducted for QMP, a class, personal project, etc) Frank Arcabascio: Italian American, hair salon owner (owns Redken Saloon Salon on 30th Ave). Talks about his progression from working in his cousins' barbershop sweeping the floor etc., to owning his own salon that specializes in hair extensions. Now lives in Long Island. Talks about how Astoria's always been a ''transient" neighborhood in terms of people moving here who can't afford to live in Manhattan -main difference now is the cafes/nightlife, so that people living in Manhattan may come for a night out here. Context of interview: "30th Ave -A Year in the Life of a Street" project. Transcript notes for research My name is Frank Arcabascio and I'm a resident of Jackson Heights I Astoria all my life. I started off on Astoria Boulevard, at Joseph's hair place on 29th Street. Eventually I opened up my own store on Steinway street in 1981, and in 1993 I came to the present location which is 37th Street and 30th Avenue. It used to be a lawyers' office here. They were the lawyers for Astoria Federal. When they went out so did their lawyers. And you think the recession's bad now. In '93 the recession was horrible. We were able to do it with no money down. And we did through the owners because they couldn't get rid of it. In my mind the thing that comes first when I think of 30th Ave is the salon. But also the business community. The people. And the cafes. That's the new thing that comes to your mind. It's a fun place to be. In 93 there were no cafes. There were a lot of delicatessens and dry cleaners and you know, just that's the way New York was then. Recently I was in Central Park and we were in the West side by Strawberry fields. And we came out of that and wanted to find a cafe to sit down and eat outside. And we didn't find any. I started to realize. I thought since when does 30th Avenue beat Columbus Avenue, or Amsterdam Avenue? I want people to be proud of how many nice things we have and how down to earth it still is. It's a transient area. If you cannot afford to live in Manhattan you eventually find your way to Astoria. That's the life of the neighborhood, it's the young people. It's always been this way. People think oh all of a sudden people from Manhattan are starting to live in Astoria. I've been working in Astoria since 1971. There were always people living here who couldn't afford Manhattan. Actors, actresses, artists. They always live in this community. Now it's just become a little more commercial with the cafes. A place where someone from Manhattan might come and visit and hang out. Years ago it was only people living here who worked in the city. Now it's become like an alternative to the meatpacking, they come for the cafes. 30th Ave Business Association: The way it started was a few years ago we wanted to have holiday lighting in the streets. Everybody was asked to chip in and not everybody would contribute. I had an opportunity to have a festival on the street, and everyone who sponsors the festival -$6-7000, we use that for the Christmas lights. So usually the festival pays for the Christmas lights and we didn't ask anyone for money for lights any more. The Association started in 1999. My own kids aren't that interested in my business but my nieces do work here. I now live in Long Island and my kids grew up there. Even though I grew up here and started a business here and now work here 5, 6 days a week, they didn't grow up here. Two of them are going to college -they're probably going to go into the corporate world and jump into Manhattan. But they want to live in Astoria. I own this building and they're going to take the apartment upstairs. So they don't want to work in Astoria but they want to live here. I knew very young that I wanted to be a hairdresser. My cousin that I worked for, I used to sweep and clean up to make tips, I used to shine shoes. I knew early on the power of a good haircut. It was funny because the salon I first worked in was a very blue collar barbershop. You would see men walk in filthy dirty. I'd wash their hair. Then from the neck up my cousins would transform these guys. Between trimming their moustache, their beards, their haircut. And they'd walk out looking amazing. Many of them like I said, blue collar construction workers. And they were very early in the field with the unisex thing, and always going to seminars. And they kept progressing. And as a young kid I was like "yeah, let's go to a different hairshow in the city, or visit other salons." (It's called Joseph's hair place, it's actually still there). So the idea of transforming a person is so powerful. They'd come in looking oh, terrible and they'd walk out looking like Clark Gable sometimes. I like long hair. I can give people long hair. In the past you could only cut hair. That kind of transformed my career. About 10 years ago I took courses in Great Lengths Hair Extensions. We were one of the few doing it. I didn't know it, but we started getting outsourced on the salons that didn't want to lose the clients, so we developed accounts. We have over 18 accounts that we do hair extensions for. I'm in Manhattan now two days a week -four in Astoria and two in Manhattan -if I were in Manhattan I'd go nuts, and likewise if I were in Astoria alone. Nuts in Manhattan because they have a lot of money, they are very high-powered career people and are very demanding. That's not the problem because I like parameters. But on 30th Ave in Astoria you're considered an authority, more on an even playing field. When you're in the city you're more of a service person, unless you're in one of the top places. I think we're all equal and we just choose to do different things. You don't just work on hair you work on a person. So it's fun to ask a person what are the highlights of their hair, what they like, their best haircuts, their worst haircuts, what's going to make them happy now. And achieving those things. I can see someone's head of hair and you immediately see what you can do on it. But that's what I want to do ... sometimes the person wants a fantasy idea and don't have the hair for it. That's where you learn diplomacy and tact. In 2002-4 I was also president of the business association and I called up Barnes and Nobel and asked them about putting one up here on 30th Avenue. They said they can't. The stores are too small. They need 10,000 square feet. 2,000 which is the largest size along here -many of them are 400 or 500 square feet -most mom and pop stores and family businesses operate in that space range. The franchises want a much larger space range. That's not to say you don't have to do the newest and latest. Like we use Facebook and Twitter. You have to embrace the new technology but it's still a family business embracing it. I use a brand -Redken -to get the attention, but I'm still a family business. Redken themselves would only be on Fifth Avenue. I took Redken to 30th Avenue. So a family will bring in new ideas, trendy ideas and can change on a dime. A franchise has a corporate bureaucracy. But the answer re changing in 10 years .... lt will be more polished, more interesting trendy businesses and cafes maybe. 