~ Queens Library QUEENS &tn"rA yoMr lfft¥ Queens Memory Project CDLLEGE Submission Information Form 30th Ave project interview: Jeanne Marie Boes Date of interview: December 4, 2011 Time period(s) discussed in interview: 1988-2011 Name of interviewer: Annabel Short Name of interviewee: Jeanne Marie Boes Location where interview took place (specific address if possible): Athens Cafe, 3207 30th Avenue, Astoria, NY 11102 Places discussed in interview: Astoria. People discussed in interview: Organizations discussed in interview: Make and model ofrecorder used: Olympus Linear PCM Recorder LS-10 Language(s) used in interview: English Additional Notes: any or all of the following information: Length of time interviewee has lived in the neighborhood, Ethnic background, Occupation, Housing type (renting an apartment, owning a house, etc), Age of interviewer and/or age of interviewee, Particular involvements with neighborhood (church, civic involvement), Context for the interview (conducted for QtvfP, a class, personal project, etc) Jeanne Marie Boes, 23, is a singer-songwriter who was born and brought up in Astoria. She attended Frank Sinatra School of the Arts and says she would go back to that time if she could. She says that more live music venues are opening up in Astoria; on 30th Ave she has played in the Quays and the Shillelagh Tavern. Her inspirations include the musicians she heard in her home when she was growing up -Frank Sinatra, Judy Garland, Ella FitzGerald. Context of interview: "30th Ave -A year in the life of a street" project ( www. 3 OthA ve. org). Transcript notes for research My name is Jeanne Marie Boes, and I am a singer, songwriter and musician. I live along 30th Avenue. For a while I lived near Newton Road, and now for about 11, 12 years I've been on 30th. I was born and raised in Astoria. As of late there has been a stronger musical community, because they are all starting to realize that there are bars and restaurants right here that are looking for live music, rather than running to Manhattan. There are definitely increasing places where peo~le can play. Here I've played at the Quays and the Shillelagh Tavern, both directly on 30' . I was kind of born and raised on Frank Sinatra, Judy Garland, Ella FitzGerald, so I kind of lean towards that kind of music. We had a keyboard, some kind of Casio. And I was like hey, that's fun, and I would play around with it. Around that time they said well you like it, maybe you should take music lessons. I have always leaned towards music. I went to Frank Sinatra School of the Arts. I graduated in 2006. And I've kind of been winging it since, trying to make it. What's difficult about it is gaining exposure, that's the hardest thing. What's fun is meeting other musicians and meeting the audiences who enjoy what you are playing. Really just making people smile. I mean if they walk away happy of what they heard ... I play the blues. I have my upbeat songs, my ballads. I guess that's funny though that I'd say they walk away happy! So I guess, walk away having enjoyed, maybe. I write by myself and I collaborate. When I say the challenge is getting exposure, it's to agents and producers, but also just to a bigger audience. When I'm not performing I'm trying to do the social network thing, and that's difficult at times too. It's definitely friendly [the music community in Astoria]. The non-friendly ones don't usually get far! I know a lot of very, very nice people. Two words I'd use to describe Astoria? I'd want to say "emerging". I mean just businesses alone, all these new cafes, new restaurants. And "inspiring". Astoria is gorgeous, I love it. I can see myself staying here as long as I can, before I move to my dream loft in the village. But until then, this is a nice place. I think there were fewer restaurants here when I was a child. It's possible that I just wasn't going to them at that age. But 30'h, Broadway and Steinway, it just seems like it's really booming. Lots of my high school friends are still in the neighborhood. Here and also in Flushing, and all over the place. There's a place on Broadway I like going to ... sort oflike a restaurant, bar, bakery ... Omonia Cafe. I'm trying to think on 30th ... quite close to 30th there's Mini Star Diner. My family and the owners are really great friends from way back. Getting Greek salads and things. Originally my family is German, French, well French Canadian, Irish and Italian. The part of being a musician I enjoy the most is creating the music. I'm big on melody. I don't know just coming out with a tune and flopping out some chords, that's my thing. [Inspiration comes from] other music, that's the biggest. Already counting Frank Sinatra and those, I do like Billy Holiday. The Beatles and Billy Joel. Earlier this year I brought out an EP, that's five songs, it's called Promising Girl. [After releasing it, go about] promoting it by playing tons and tons of shows, everywhere possible. Online, you know, Facebook, emails. But yeah, just playing the songs. I'm not a morning person! When I finally do wake up I check my email. .. I'm really just always looking for places I can play ... promoting my music. And then in the evenings playing. I would love to play every night, that would be a dream. I mean if I could make a living doing this. I just do basic paperwork stuff [to earn money]. I have performed in Manhattan. I was very, very fortunate to have played at WNYC radio -they have this new space and they were having this contest. I happened to get into this finalist group. And I played in this room, it was the Jerome L Green space. And I was like "oh my God this is right next door to WNYC radio", which is, I mean they are the home of one of my favorite radio stations, WQXR. It's weird because I listen to a lot of pop music, but classical is great too. And I have played a lot of bars and cafes. And Tavern on the Green, it was kind of a Summer Festival thing. So I've had some luck, but it's hard. Manhattan is definitely more competitive. But also there is a lot going for you there and you have a lot of chances. I can only imagine why. Queens is a great starting point ... I mean I'm not putting it down ... but I would give it a couple of years and it might be a great place for it to be a good next step point. It's hard for me to pick a favorite song. But I know that people have loved certain ones. I mean one of my new ones is called "If it's goodbye". It's out of a couple of mine in which I've really tried to jump into the pop genre. And there's a big chorus part where it's you know, crazy big notes. It was different for me, so it was a nice different feel. I feel like my voice leans towards the blues. I could be wrong because a lot of people have told me I should sing country songs. Singing the blues, I really feel it. The blues, it goes into your soul, blues and jazz, I think. A lot of my friends from Frank Sinatra have gone on in music. But I know a lot of people who have gone on to do totally different things. Or one girl I know ended up being a teacher in the same school. She came a dance teacher in the school, and is really, really proud of being there. I've seen people going on to be elementary school teachers, some of them going on to getting married, having babies. And I'm like what is this, it's crazy! (I'm 23). It was a wonderful atmosphere there, a lot of music, drama and art. I would go back ifl could. Just to make it easy again. Getting out of the real life, you know! Ifl could do it over I would. 