http://www.sunnysidesoundproject.org/?p=387

Anna Thea Bridge 
By Sabine Heinlein

“There is no question that they are a wild creature. You have to treat them with a certain amount of deference and respect, because they sting. In their mind, I’m the equivalent of a bear—well, I’m a little more gentle than a bear.”

Anna Thea Bridge has been interested in bees almost as long as she can remember. But only once beekeeping was legalized in New York City last March, did she install two hives on the roof of her house in Sunnyside Gardens.

Beekeeping, Anna says, is so versatile that it is impossible to tire of it. “This month I might be interested in watching them bring pollen back and learning about different kinds of pollen, at another time in hive design and the history of different hives. It keeps your interest potentially for a lifetime,” she says.

Currently, Anna enjoys how present and mindful she has to be when working with the bees. She compares beekeeping to meditation and Tai Chi.

A litigation attorney, Anna often works long, stressful hours. But on the weekends she puts on her beekeeper’s suit and climbs to the roof, where she moves thoughtfully and slowly to not agitate the bees. She inspects the hives, feeds the bees sugar water and makes sure that the Queen is happy and the hive has enough space. This Memorial Day weekend, Anna added another “super” to one of the hives. The supers look like drawers and contain several frames in which the bees store their honey. When it gets cold, the bees cluster in the hive’s center to keep warm, and some of the supers may have to be removed, because too much space is difficult for the bees to heat.

Each of Anna’s hives houses up to 50,000 bees, mostly female workers and male drones, and one queen, the hive’s central character. Affectionately, Anna has named her first two queens Queen Alice and Queen Bernadette, their initials corresponding to the first two letters of the alphabet, presumably the beginning of a tradition.

Each hive can produce up to 100 pounds of honey a year. Some of that honey will help to reward Anna’s neighbors. “They were nervous at first that there are going to be bees in their yard all the time. But bees have a three-mile radius,” Anna says. “And they don’t all leave because the queen is inside and they are bonded with her.” In fact, I was surprised how calmly the bees came and went while we were on the roof for Anna’s weekly routine.

Sunnyside, with its linden trees, its abundance of flower boxes and its proximity to several cemeteries—bees love the patches of clover that grow there—is the perfect environment for bees. While Anna agrees that bees are wild creatures that have to be treated with deference and respect, she also thinks that their virtue is underestimated. “People don’t really think about pollination but it’s really important,” she says, mentioning the city’s recent push to plant more apple trees in the Big Apple. “If you don’t have any bees you are not going have any apples,” she explains.

So if you see a bee in your yard or on the cemetery, be kind to it. Maybe attach a tiny little letter to its pollen sacks, thanking Anna for helping to pollinate Sunnyside’s flowers and fruit trees. In return, you will soon be able to buy “Sunnyside Honey” at the local farmers market.

In the podcast Anna talks about the perks of beekeeping and her decision to buy a house in Sunnyside.





Transcript

Interested in bees since 12 or 13, started reading books, activly involved in legalizing beekeeping, sister in NJ has bees, “It’s really nice to have my own bees finally.”

Different points interested in diff. facets, in so many diff. ways “This month I mght be interested in watching them bring pollen back and learning about different kinds of pollen and at another period of time, hive design, history of different hives. It keeps your interest potentially for a lifetime. Right now I’m really enjoying how present and mindfulyou have to be when your aworking with the bees. It’s not always easy to get into that mind set. It’s like a forced meditation in some sense. Thoughtful, plan what you want to accomplish. Once you get int there you have to move diliberatly and slowly. There’s people who have compared to Thai Chi. How you have to be present in what you are doing so that you don’t agitate [the bees.] 

Expects the hive every week. Evidence that the queen is in there. Marked with a little blue dot. She is the central character of the whole hive. Take off the sugar syrup this week. Space. Prevent swarming. 

International color-coding system. This year the color is blue.

3 diff. types of bees, queen biggest. “if there is more than one that doesn’t last very lnog because they fight to the death.” Wast majority worker bees, female,
drones male, middle size, special cell, made of wax, with eggs, worker bees will feed the eggs in the royal gelee. -- queens. Whichever queen hatches first awill fight/kill the other

high of season, juen, july, 50,000/hive

form ball in the center, cluster, eat honey, leave them enough honey, at beginning sugar water: (had no honey stored): give them something to eat for winter

no certificate, books and workshop, NYC beekeep association, always talking to other beekeepers. “There is always something to learn.” Inspection process an hour, “At night they are sleeping.”

Bees important pollinators. “People don’t really think about pollination but it’s really important.” Push apple trees in the city -the big Apple- “If you don’t have any bees you are not gonna have any apples.”

“There is no question that they are a wild creature, so you have to treat them with a certain amount of deference and respect—because they sting. And it’s not fun to gets stung. In their mind I’m the equivalent of a bear--well I’m a little more gentle than a bear. 


They work as a whole in a way that is really unique. Even though there a thousands of bees in each hive--you can think of each hive as its own orgainsims with a a lot fo millionb parts because they work together that well. 

Neighbors: They were nervous at first that there are gonna be bees in their yard all theie time. 3-mile radius. It’s really not a heavy concentration at all. They don’t all leave because the queen is inside and they are bonded with her. Foragers flyting around looking for flowers as we speak. They don’t all congregate in the same place. Bees love clover. Bees love cemetaries, patches of clover. So many flower boxes, linden trees, linden honey is one of the most delicious honeys.

Sunnyside: architecture, history, amount of green space, “I have a flat solar south facing roof in a neighborhood that is perfect for bees.” Has lived here for a year. No bears in Sunnyside.

Worker bee: guard bee. Makes sure that everybody who is coming and going belongs into the hive. Wasps, wax moths, bees from other hives. 

Average hive 100 pounds of honey. I promised a lot of people honey.  Neighbors, who were very tolerant. “It’s always a good approach to give honey to your neighbors.” Sell some at the greenmarket “Sunnyside Honey”

Litigation attorney, “Very different from beekeeping” stressful job, important to maintain outside interest, balance, 

Graduate degree in folklore, alternative medicine, beekeepers as occupation group, 

Constantly something interesting and new to learn, I don’t think it was one particular story or event as much as over time realizing that this was an area I wouldn never get sick of. Bees and beekeeping have realy been a constant [in my life] I’ve never not been interested in bees. 

Build a solar wax melter, take off wax when harvesting honey, melts, makes candles, 

Eating local honey gets rid of allergiges, honey on burns, antibacterial, pulls out moisture, tastes good, 

“The bees leave the hive. They are not like a dog or a cat you have total control over. The bees are wild in the sense that they have the freedom that they come and go, but they are domesticated in that you are creating this living situation for them where you are trying that they want to stay. But at the end of the day if you didn’t do a good job with that and they really wanted to leave they would. It’s rare for a hive to abscond, but if you really screwed it up or if someone decided to run a jackhammer all day long, they would. 

Swarming: half of bees leave, run out of space, split up, old queen leaves with half of bees

People have been very positive.  Zucchini: Should be easier this year because now there is bees in the neighborhood. 

Harvesting honey: June and September, 
