Queens Memory Project Oral History Interview Content Outline City: New York City Neighborhood (if any): Queens Date of Interview: April 24, 2016  Time Period: 1960- Present  Name of interviewee: Denise Briggs (DJ Lady Love) Name of interviewer: Shalyce Blue  Length of interview: 54 min, 3 sec Name of editor: Tenzin Tseten Timecode Outline Preparer:  Aimai Reporter Editing software: Adobe Soundbooth  Languages Used in Software: English Denise Briggs was born in Fordham Hospital in Bronx, NY. She lived in Bronx until she was ten, when she moved to Brooklyn. At age 12 she moved to Flushing Queens, then Queens Village, then St. Albans. Her family moved often and she has also lived in Canada and Cleveland - Queens was the most stable place the family lived. Denise has two sisters and one brother. At a young age she loved reading and listening to music. She would play 45’s for her family when she was asked and ended up performing for her friends in various parks.  She attended parties because she loved to listen to music and watching how the DJ’s used their turntables. She had her son at age 16. When she was 18, she left her son with her mother because she wanted to be DJ – she was “going to become one no matter what”. After that she started to network with others in the DJ community in Queens and the Bronx and learned from them. Denise has DJ’d at Fantasia and Jamaica Armory, Fantasia was a popular club in Jamaica and Jamaica Armory was a military museum. She walked away from DJ’ing when she was 22 or 23 in 1981 (“and hip hop started blowing up in 1982, 83, 84”), because she was having trouble getting paid - and at that time it was hard being the only woman in a crowd of “dudes”. She eventually came back to Dj’ing, and has since received some awards for her work.  The interview trajectory follows the themes of her love of making music, her lifelong journey to becoming a DJ, and her viewpoint on various musical topics.  00:00:30 Denise Briggs was born in Fordham Hospital in the Bronx, NY. She lived in Bronx until she was 10 and then she moved to various places before her family settled in Queens when she was 12.  00:01:29 It was hard for Denise to make friends at a young age because her family moved a lot. Denise was into reading books and listening to music. She would play music for her friends in the park with her portable radio. 00:02:16 Denise has two sisters and one brother. She was the only one in her family who loved music. She often played the music for her family. 00:04:00 Denise would travel to the Bronx by herself when she was around 15 or 16 years old to go to parties where hip-hop music was being played.  00:04:40 Denise wasn’t interested in graffiti and was more interested in DJ’ing and rapping. She cared about was finding where Flash and Cold Crush were performing. Grandmaster Flash was a hip hop recording artist and DJ. He is considered to be one of the pioneers of hip-hop DJ’ing and Cold Crush brothers were a popular hip-hop group. 00:05:24 Denise had cousins who were DJs and occasionally she would get on their turntable to play during events. She wanted to be a DJ when she first saw a DJ mix two records on the turntables. She talks about her mother being an alcoholic and how people on drugs affected her while traveling.    00: 08:48 Denise got pregnant at fifteen and had her son at sixteen. At 18 her mother kicked her out of house and took care of her son, while she continued to pursue DJ’ing. She talks about her experience being a female DJ where she wasn’t treated equally because the DJ community was dominated by men. 00:12:03 Denise talks about attending different schools. Denise first attended Murry Bergtraum High School. Her family then moved to Canada and then Denise finally attended John Adams High School in the Ozone Park neighborhood in Queens. Denise later enrolled in Queens College after she dropped out of high school and later received her GED.  00:14:08 Denise talks about the places such as record explosion on Jamaica Avenue, forty-second street, downstairs records were she would go to buy records and her experience using tapes and CD’s. 00:16:18 Denise discusses people in the music community who she looked up to. She talks about her mentors who taught her scratching and meeting various DJs who were top names such as Grandmaster Flash, Woody Wood and many more. 00:21:15 Denise talks about her first experience playing in club Fantasia in Queens, which made her confident in her abilities as DJ. 00:24:00 She only had one DJ battle where she won. She wasn’t really a part of any groups but when performing she would be a part of groups such as Infinite Machine and other hip-hop groups. 00:26:40 Denise Briggs gives her opinion regarding the differences between rappers Tupac and Biggie. She later reflects that she wishes that she hadn’t give up on DJ’ing right when hip-hop was becoming very popular.  00:28:20 She talks about Mr. Magic who was the first DJ to play hip-hop on the radio and mentions some of her favorite songs. 00:31:18 She never really felt racism but gender equality because many men did not let females play unless they were known to be really good DJs. 00:33:42 She talks about her best memory when she went to Connecticut with Infinite Machine, Woody Wood and other DJs to play and the experience playing in Jamaica Armory. 00:36:43 Denise talks about the difference between hip-hop now and how it was back in the day. 00:39:12 Denise talks about how nowadays the hip-hop artists and musicians don’t know how to play music instead they use computers to compose beats and make music. She also discusses that kids in school nowadays don’t know how to play music and the schools should teach kids how to play music.  00:46:00 Denise says that hip-hop artists now should give back to where they got it from - and how some of the popular hip-hop songs nowadays don’t have any meaning but just good beats. 00:48:52 Denise describes the reasons she came back to be a DJ in 2010,  how people started to reach her, and more people knowing about her now then back in the day. 00:51:51 Denise Briggs received various awards and talks about how now she DJ's on her own terms.    