Queens Memory 
Oral History Interview Timecode Outline

City:				Name of city discussed in interview, ex: “Flushing”
Neighborhood (if any):		Name, ex: “Waldheim neighborhood”
Date of Interview: 		July 22, 2017 
Time Period:			2006-20XX
Interviewee Date of Birth:	Month XX, 19XX
Name of interviewee:		Toni Coleman Brown
Name of interviewer:		Natalie Milbrodt
Length of interview: 		00hrs, 12 min, 37 sec
Name of editor:		First Last (this is the person who edits the audio file into clips for 
the Queens Memory site)
Editing software:		Name of software, ex: “Audacity” or “Adobe Soundbooth”
Timecode Outline Preparer:	August Zuzworsky
	
Summary:	Paragraph about person interviewed, synopsis of interview


00:00:50	I grew up in New Orleans I wanted to be a flight attendant not an author. I started working as a financial officer for the port authority. I went back to school to get a master degree. Getting that degree made me want to become an author. Queens is where my author spirit was born.

00:03:20	I was the marketing director for black expressions book club run by double day express. I learned the ins and outs of the business s after I wrote my first book I self-published. 

00:04:29 Linsey Abrams one of my teachers at City College was my first real writing teacher. One of the things she said was my writing really came to life when I started writing about my childhood. Maya Angelou, Alice Walker are some of my favorite authors and some of my early teachers.
	 
00:06:20	The most challenging part of my artistic process is finding the time to write. I tend to be a procrastinator. It helps if I give myself a deadline
00:07:26 I am a nook and cranny writer I write whenever I have a minute or the ideas come to me. And the great thing about smart phones is I can talk into my phone and it translates it into text and then I edit it. So I don’t actually do a lot of physical writing.
00:09:28 I would tell my younger writer self to just keep writing and never stop. Just be who you are. Don’t let people dictate who you are or what you write

00:11:13 publishing my first book showed me how giving myself a hard deadlines helped me sit down and get the book done.

