Queens Memory Project
Oral History Interview Timecode Outline

		
Neighborhood:				Howard Beach, Queens
Date of Interview:			December 5, 2017 
Time Period:				1970 - 2017
Interviewee Date of Birth:		Unknown 
Name of interviewee:			Tina DiMaria 
Name of Interviewer:			Taylor DiMaria 
Length of Interview:			0 hours, 13 minutes, 19 seconds
Name of Editor:				Adrianna Kumar
Editing software:			Adobe Soundbooth 
Timecode Outline Preparer:		Adrianna Kumar 

Summary: 	Tina DiMaria was born in 1970 in Queens, New York. She lived in Woodhaven, Queens in a two-family home until she was fifteen years old and then moved to a house in Howard Beach, Queens. Tina talks about growing up in Woodhaven, recalling her most profound memories and changes in the neighborhood from 1970 to 2017. She ends the interview by talking about her thoughts and hopes for the future of the areas she lived in including Woodhaven and Howard Beach. 
00:01:09       Tina has lived in Woodhaven, Queens for the most part of her childhood before moving with her family to Howard Beach, Queens. She says she had wonderful friends and neighbors in both parts of Queens. 
00:02:50      Tina talks about her memorable next door neighbor. She recalls Mrs. Morris baking cookies, playing old time music, and having a good time. She refers to Mrs. Morris as a “wonderful, wonderful person”. 
00:04:00    Tina describes the diversity of both of the neighborhoods she lived in. She says Woodhaven was more diverse (there were more Hispanics moving in) while Howard Beach consisted of a majority of Italians. 

00:04:55              Tina explains the changes in Woodhaven from her childhood to now. She says the candy store from when she was a child is “not as clean” to this date. She adds she will not feel comfortable living in Woodhaven now. 
00:07:08    Tina talks about the schools she attended as a child and teenager and says they were better back then. 
00:09:27     Tina recalls her childhood in Woodhaven when her block would have parties every summer. The street would be blocked off so the childhood could run in the streets freely until eleven at night. There would be barbeque, music and the fire hydrants would go off. She says she had a lot of fun with her neighbors. 
00:10:14    Tina says that children these days, such as her daughter, do not have the same experience socializing since technology has taken over their social lives. When she was growing up she would play games such as kick the can, stoop ball, and other outdoor activities with her friends.
00:11:22    Tina would love for Woodhaven to change, however, she does not see a change occurring for the better in the near future. 

 
