Khylla Watson
PCOM—6000
Dr. Nicholas Hirshon 
Oral History Interview Transcript
Audrey Dimola Oral History Interview Recording (Google Drive) 
City: Astoria, New York
Date of Interview: October 5, 2018
Name of Interviewee: Audrey Dimola
Name of Interviewer: Khylla Watson
Length of Interview: 1 hour, 28 minutes 

Khylla Watson: My name is Khylla Watson. Today is October 5th, 2018. I am in Astoria, New York, with Audrey Dimola. Okay, so, what is your earliest childhood memory? Or, what was life like at home as a child?
Audrey Dimola: Totally, oh my god. Always taking trips to wonderful places. But only a couple times on an airplane to Florida. But, as soon as you said that I just always think of a memory of being outside of my house. Its summer time, like, you can smell the black top. And there’s just this smell of summer. My dad’s car and just all of us getting in. I think that’s my one the reasons why I love the Triborough Bridge so much, the Art of Gay Bridge. Just the trips that we would take. We would go to, you know, amusement parks, or go visit family. So, always have memories like that and just being able to enjoy my family. Our house has lots of history. The house itself is from the late 1800s. So, even before my family got there, but literally so much of my family’s history is in this house. My father emigrated from Polignano, in Italy with his family, well he was taken with his family because he was one years old, so he didn’t make the choice. And so, they ended up on 9th street at first, and then moved to the house that we still have. My grandfather owned it then my father inherited it and so he grew up there and then he moved in downstairs with my mother later on. When they were engaged, they were living there you know and then started their family there, you know, myself, my brother and sister all grew up there. So, there’s so much in that house and just yeah. I feel like, why does summer time come up so much as soon as you ask me my earliest memory? And being in our backyard. We have this, like, cute little backyard space and I’m a summer baby so that Queens backyard pool life with the little kiddie pool and playing in the sprinkler. 
Khylla Watson: Is it far from here? Is your childhood home far from where you live right now?
Audrey Dimola: Thankfully its not. Yeah, so it’s on 33rd road and Vernon. Its one of only two houses, now three, because they built a house in the property, and actually, in the front yard they built another house for their daughter or something, our neighbors. But there’s only two houses, and we’re right across from the Noguchi Museum. So, that’s also a part of my family history. My dad worked at the gas station that existed there before the Noguchi Museum even existed. So, he swept the street for Noguchi, this world-famous artist, because no one knew who he was then.
Khylla Watson: Have you been there? To the museum? 
Audrey Dimola: Yeah and my dad is close with them. And also, where I work currently, Socrates Sculpture Park, is really close by also. So, growing up there, now in that area, so much is coming up, you know and that’s what we’re seeing in Astoria. These old houses being ripped down and like mini condos being built in spaces between, you know, old nice houses. Lots of gentrification in that area because it used to be super quiet also, somewhat unsafe, you know, and now there are, yeah, there’s condos all the way down Vernon Boulevard, there’s more coming up all the time. A Costco exists now, right near us. There’s, cafés, which is crazy, because it used to feel like no-mans-land you know and when Noguchi and Mark di Suvero founded Socrates, that’s how it felt over there, you know, just this, like, this green oasis, and this artistic oasis in this pretty much just like straight up industrial area, with warehouses and desolate streets. 
Khylla Watson: So, what was it like growing up in, as you said, a wasteland environment? Do you think you spent more time with your family then? 
Audrey Dimola: Oh yeah. Yeah, I would say we definitely had a wonderful life of freedom in our house. Like, we were pretty sheltered, you know. Like, we would play with childhood friends of ours but like with our family there. With my grandmother, my nana, like sitting on the street. You know, we were definitely not kids who were like: here’s this money, go to the store and buy me something. No, it was like, we were a pack and we did everything together or we did everything with my mom. My mom also babysat lots of kids over my entire life, so I’ve had all these like, almost, foster brothers and sisters, right, like all these kids that you get to know. And watched the neighborhood kids, watched, you know, my cousins. So, there was just always kids and life, and like, something happening in our house. It was a house that no one ever wanted to leave. Like kids would literally—I’m like kids—my friends, and family would like hide in the closet and cry because they didn’t want to go home because my mom gave us so much, you know, wonderful freedom. So, it was like, yeah, I guess we didn’t, I didn’t realize, you know, I didn’t realize until I got older and then, you know, started going to college, and like then you’re going out, right, you’re like seeing your friends and then you come home and you’re like hm, I don’t feel safe walking, you know, I’m going to take a cab from the Broadway train because, yeah there’s like this long stretch of blocks from the Broadway train to where we are, generally, take the buses until later. So, yeah and I guess not even realizing, you know, you’re in this space, for your whole life—that’s the thing about me with Queens—even now like I work at Socrates, which is my stomping ground, for my whole life, so you don’t even notice, you know, how quiet the block is, like hearing birds in the trees or just like the characteristics of your, yeah the like, the fiber of your block until, right, you have to move. I haven’t lived anywhere outside of New York. I only lived in Brooklyn for, like, less than a year so I’ve always been here in Queens, but I feel blessed when I can hear birds somewhere. Like, living, myriad living situations. 
Khylla Watson: Interesting. So, you mentioned your grandparents. Have they ever shared a migration story with you? Because you said they came over from Italy. What was that like?
Audrey Dimola: So that interesting because we were not really able to communicate with my dad’s parents and my dad was the last of six; they were farmers and that’s one the reasons why they ended up emigrating because their crops did really badly one year and then they had an opportunity with, you know, my grandfather’s brother, I think, or brother-in-law. So, it was like, wanna go to—wanna go to America? And then, that’s what ended up happening. And there’s, so that is actually really interesting like now being an adult and thinking of this. You know, I’m thirty-two now and I have, uh—my mother’s father is like a little bit, you know, separated or estranged from us, she didn’t grow up with him, so we just have kind of like a friend relationship with him. But in terms of our like real grandparents, they’re all gone. You know, and it’s like, when you’re a kid, you don’t even think of these questions and things you would want to ask. And so, yeah my dad’s parent’s were much older and so we’re like still getting these stories, you know, occasionally, from his brothers or sister, because he was too young to even hold any of these stories, right? He was literally one year old, like I had mentioned to you when they came over from Polignano.
Khylla Watson: And he never asked them? 
Audrey Dimola: And like yeah, like. Maybe, but not—my dad’s an interesting character too, right? Like, the stories that he tells are more, I feel like, about his life in the neighborhood, and you know, and like growing up, being a rock and roller, like, fixing cars you know. Yeah, so my uncles or my aunt, were the ones who kind of told us a little bit about that. But, in juxtaposition to them, and not really being able to communicate with them, aside from like, you know, gestures that you could understand and like, we’re all having dinner together, whatever, my Nana, who is my mom’s mom, was so present in our life, especially in my life. And so, you know, where I was talking about my dad growing up, on you know, 33rd Road and Vernon, literally my mom grew up on 14th Street which was really close by. So, this radius of my life, is literally, like I can be like, that’s where my mom grew up, that’s where my dad grew up, this is where they met, on the stoop, in the pizza store, you know, like, this is where the butcher shop used to be. And it’s like, crazy to have all of these layers—it’s where my cousin used to live, where my Nana used to live. So, they literally met like crossing paths in the neighborhood. As you did, right? I’m like, I guess you could meet the person you’re supposed to marry in the neighborhood, right? So, a lot of uh—yeah so, my dad was the last of six, my mom was the oldest of four. So, my mom was really looking after her sisters and yeah, her grandfather had a butcher shop, so just like, really neighborhoody folks in Astoria.
Khylla Watson: So, you talked about growing up, you know, with childhood friends and things like that so what were they like? Did they have the same experience as you growing up or was it kind of different? Being as though, you know, you lived with your family and everyone was in your family, or?
Audrey Dimola: Yeah, I mean I remember I was—probably—in elementary school and I went to friend Margaret’s house in Jackson Heights and we got to play man hunt outside and I was like what? Like, no one’s here watching us, we can like run all around and like hide under cars if we want to and like, it like blew my mind, you know? And so, my—yeah, my mom, loves us so exceptionally dearly but it translates into like high anxiety for our life, right? So, those kind of experiences of suddenly like, oh my god freedom, and I remember—super weird—sleeping over my elementary school best friend’s house and this was when Costco was new, right next to our house, and literally like we get into the Costco, and I’m also there with my brother and her younger brother, we were all friends, and her parents were like, go play, just like in the Costco! Like, play hide and seek and like meet up here or whatever and we were like nuts. But like my mom found out after and was like, you could’ve gotten stolen, you know? So, like I feel like we had differences in those ways and like, for me, really coming into my own, as being my own person, took all the way into college because all of my schools were so close. I went to Long Island City High school, which I could see from my living room window, right? Like, when I’m telling you my radius is small, it’s pretty small. Yeah, we got to break out like going on those trips and things like that, you know, but in terms of, you know, yeah, really, you know and you realize more as you get older and then I’m, the fact that I’m like not living in my house with my brother and sister still, or my aunt and uncle moved into that house as well, and you realize wow, we were like really on top of each other, all the time. 
Khylla Watson: Well what was high school like? Were you in any clubs or activities? Sports?
Audrey Dimola: Yeah, definitely. So, I—yeah, I was just a weirdo. Still am! Always just wore whatever I wanted and like no one could really make heads or tails of me, which was really funny, but I was really big in theatre, yeah, and performing and writing and like really kind of made a name for myself with my writing. And yeah, always in the school plays I got to do the English speaking—English Speaking Union of New York Shakespeare Competition—in the city, I got to like to train for that, and then compete against kids from all around the boroughs. Like, I won from Queens, so that was really cool. And yeah, made, you know—friends were the thing that gets you through. I have a lot of, like, anxiety in school also, and just like yeah wanting to do well, stressing out. But yeah, starting to get my little taste of, yeah, following a friend into the city, right? My best friend Nick and I would always hang out in Union Square and just like wander and go into Virgin Mike Store. But, yeah having the high school super close, when you don’t want to think about it, and you could see it out your living room window; not fun. 
Khylla Watson: Well do you remember the first time that you actually ventured out outside of, as you said, your radius? What was that like? 
Audrey Dimola: Yeah, oh my god. So that, definitely, you know, college—because there were like a couple different things. There was this guy I started seeing in Staten Island and that was like—end of the world!—like trying to get out there, right? I had to take a ferry, I had to take a bus, you know? And you do a lot of things for love, right? And then of course, yeah I went to school outside of Queens, I went to Hunter College, so like you know just taking the trains by myself the first time, paying for things by myself for the first time, and then escaping to Atlantic City with my best friend without telling my mom where I was going, she thought I was in Sunnyside. He had grown up going there and it’s still our tradition. For my thirty second birthday this year we actually like went back after all these years, so, yeah. Shocking, but like, yeah feeling that, right, self-confidence and power is amazing. And getting out from under the worries that have kind of weighed you down from childhood. 
Khylla Watson: Well, you spoke about going to college, and going to Hunter College, why did you choose to major in media studies?
Audrey Dimola: So, when you love to write! Yeah and we actually were talking about this off the record!
Khylla Watson: Was it theatre? 
Audrey Dimola:  Yeah! When you love to write I feel like, you know, at that I time I wasn’t given a lot of options, right? You know, so many of the jobs I’ve even worked in my life, I didn’t know existed! Right? Like right now, I’m like in public programs—like what the hell is that? Right? I was a project manager, what the hell is that? You know, you love to right and then its like ok, be a journalist or be a teacher, right? Be novelist? Like, what do you even do with this, you know? So, I, you know, I didn’t want to do hard news and I love the arts always since I was a kid and so what better than like telling peoples’ stories and you know I loved Rolling Stone,  loved music—I was like I want to write for Rolling Stone or Time Out New York—so media studies was the umbrella because they didn’t have like a specific journalism major but sorry to say, I had an awful time in my major in college and I almost was like I’m not cut out for this. A lot of like self-worth stuff and self-doubt came up and I came in thinking I was going to perform, you know, I was a minor in theatre and I like backed out of it, you know, I was just too afraid, you know. And I didn’t perform my own work again until after college. Like, all of college was kind of going dark and really like inside myself and feeling different things but thank God I kind of like came back around to it afterwards. Loved my electives in college! That like, made me live. 
Khylla Watson: Or—well, you said you minored in English, so? Was that also a saving grace for you as well?
Audrey Dimola: Yeah! Oh my God! Being, you know, deep, more deep, more deeply—sorry—more deeply introduced to like Emerson and Thoreau, you know I took a class like, yeah. All these wonderful, literature classes and then like I mentioned, the electives, getting to take mysticism class and architecture, the early renaissance, you know, and archeology and then there was one on Cleopatra in Egypt, crazy. So, all of that was like so enriching for me in a way that sticks with me today. Like, things that I learned in those classes. Like Buddhism, learning about Rumi, the poet. That changed everything. Thank God I didn’t like drop out of college at that time because I couldn’t hack it as a journalist. 
Khylla Watson: Well you said Thoreau and Emerson. Are those some of your favorite writers or do have any more favorite poets or writers?
Audrey Dimola: Oh my God I have so many and I bet they’re all going to like fly out of my head right now. Uh, Fitzgerald was a first. The Great Gatsby, like, I read it over and over since I was in eight grade and its just everything how, just how he constructs sentences. Like he can take the tiniest moment and just extrapolate it into this like beautiful, flowery thing, you know, and I’m just like, how do you do that, you know? And, but, Emerson is like my soul brother, in a way. Like, I love Thoreau as well but Emerson like tops him and tops everyone, really. I even like—I went to—I had a boyfriend who was from the Massachusetts area take me to the grave where Emerson’s buried, where Thoreau’s buried. I’ve seen his house and everything because he speaks from the soul of the world and those are all the writers that I have an affinity with and I realize that, like everyone who has this like mystical, like contingent, to their writing, or like an Eastern influence rather than Western, right, and some kind of yeah, like, metaphysical bent or like that there’s God in nature and that there’s spirit in nature in the world, like that’s who I’m drawn to. So like, Rainer Maria Rilker, Hermann Hesse, Paulo Coelho, who wrote The Alchemist, yeah, Hafez and Rumi, Khalil Gibran, the prophet, and then other folks that I learned of later, like Anais Nin, like, her diaries and how, like, daring she was. Oh my God, her name is flying, Clarice Lispector—is nuts! Like, just these people who are pushing the bounds of the page and just like breaking language apart and doing something different with it and just like infusing life into it. Like speaking of that Emerson class, like it was kind of the first time in my adult life that I felt this like resonance from the universe. Of like—I got chills all over my body and I was like, ok. And now like I have all of those experiences and I like understand it but that was the first time and it was sitting in that class. And my teacher was reading something Emerson wrote about another writer, about Michel Montaigne, and he said, “Cut these words and they will bleed. They are vascular and alive.” And it was just like a lightning bolt and I was like, that is how I need to write! You know, and like all these years later, I feel like I’m going through my own journey and like exposing my own truth and standing in my truth like I feel like I’ve done that. 
Khylla Watson: Was this a point in your life where you, because you talked about in the pre-interview survey about how much you love to volunteer—was this, when you were in college, was this a point in your life where you realized how much you love to volunteer? Is that when you started volunteering a lot? 
Audrey Dimola: So, it was after. It’s so strange, it’s like when I think about my college life now, I was like knee deep in relationships, and love and drama and—lets be real—and like working for the first time and having an internship and like trying to like knock out straight A’s, you know I was so like deep in that, and so after college, one of my internships—and this is also what I mentioned in the pre-interview survey—I got this chance internship at this magazine that no longer exists in Long Island City called Ins and Outs and literally, like, I literally think what would have happened if I hadn’t done this because I took a cab to the address, right, and again I’m young, right, I haven’t like done a lot of these situations, and I roll up at the address and its like a warehouse and I’m like this is unsafe, right? And literally, I don’t even know if I called the number, but I was like I don’t see any signs saying Ins and Outs, like I didn’t know that there are studios inside warehouse buildings and like artists and magazines can be inside them. And I like went home. I literally like turned back around and I went home. But then thankfully, I called and I was like, yeah I was at some weird building and she’s like no, no that’s the right building and I went back and I ended up getting hired. So, that was like towards the tail end of college and through that started just getting to know all these people and that was when the volunteering—and it happened, like, in this strange way. Just not even realizing. It’s just like, oh my God I’d really love to help, oh my God yeah, I’d really love live events and just like the all hands-on deck feeling and the energy of it and like we are creating something with our hands for the people. So, it really wasn’t something that I was like consciously even thinking about, you know, this was—a girl that I was close friends with, Liz Nievez, she’s also an Astorian—and she had this magazine called Sugarzine, an online magazine, so we were like on the same paths, but she was like older than me, and so she wanted to start doing events and there was another gentleman that I met, Justin Finley, also an Astorian, and he created Astoria Music and Arts—and so just kind of jumping in with both of them and suddenly, you know, realizing, this is important and this feels right. And to get swept up in a movement of—as I was at the magazine, realizing, oh man Queens is really overshadowed by Brooklyn and Manhattan. Even at the magazine at the time that I was there, I was like, looking at past issues and I’m like, why are we not writing about the people in our neighborhood? Why are we not making this paper local? So, I was like stripping stuff out, you know? And so realizing like I want to carry that banner for my neighborhood, about like that their—let’s find these venues, you know? Like we don’t have Bowery Ballroom and Music Hall Williamsburg, but where are our venues? Where are our artists? Everyone’s just like, there’s no writers here. There’s no musicians here. And I’m like that can’t freaking be true, you know? Maybe it’s harder to find but that [24:27] like galvanized my soul in a way that like literally has led up to this moment. Decades later. 
Khylla Watson: And what was Ins and Outs Magazine about? What were the articles—what was the content based on? 
Audrey Dimola: Yeah, so it was an arts magazine. It was a glossy arts magazine. It was free. Costed way too much to produce and did not get returned. It was interesting because it was about everything at the same time because the staff was constantly changing, right, so it was just a chameleon of like amazing, you know, like full colored, glossy spreads, photoshoots, and like in-studios with artists and things around the neighborhood but also stuff from all the rest of the world and kind of like whatever anyone wanted. So, being there I got really tight with the staff—super small and I was like we need to hone this in. So, I, again picking up that banner, of like I want this to be about the arts in Astoria and Long Island City and Queens and if there’s other things, great, but this must be the focus of this. Yeah, so it was just like arts of all kinds: music, theatre, visual arts, painters, film—we had a fashion spread, which was ridiculous for like a local magazine. You know, its like a fashion spread? Alright. 
Khylla Watson: Well, you know, being as though you had all of those creative juices flowing, did there ever become anything inside you that you wanted to start on your own? Or did you have any ideas?
Audrey Dimola: Totally. 
Khylla Watson: When did you want to venture out? When did that happen? 
Audrey Dimola: So that’s actually like a perfect point to like pivot off of. Yeah, because as you’re noticing the whole journey at the beginning was writing about other people, I wanted to tell other people’s stories. Like, this is what I’m doing and I want like to make this platform for others, for others, and in one of the Ins and Outs Magazines we had a like little poetry section and I like, threw a poem in, you know, and I was like oh ok, you know. But really again, like Liz, changed the course of my life again, you know, and she was going to do another event at the Late Great Hell Gate Social—it doesn’t exist anymore—it was this great venue that we had on Astoria Boulevard, near Astoria Boulevard rather, and it was all about portraits of people in the neighborhood that she took, everyone in a wife-beater—just to make everyone homogenous, and, just see the quality and like the differences in their faces and like whatever they had been through in their life coming through, and she like wait, you write right? You’re a poet right? Why don’t you read. And I was like—uh—you know? And literally me saying yes to that, opened the flood gates, you know, and then after that I was just like I got the bee in my bonnet and like I wanted to understand like ok, where are other readings in Queens, where are other writers? What—is there a scene? Like are there reading series, and then that also, yeah was like a pivot off moment from you know doing shows with music and arts and everything jumbled together, really, like this is the banner that I really want to carry for this literary scene. And like I was freelancing at one point and then I was, you know, getting into the scene and discovering you know, at that point, there were like—I only found one, and then I found three reading series—in all of Queens. I’m like, this can’t be. We gotta connect the dots. And that was huge. That led to—and so I started with Liz, that was the beginning of 2011 and then—like now I’m like, oh my god its crazy to think how quickly things go after that. So, 2013 I did the first ever Queens Literary Town Hall at Queens Council on the Arts and I got all these myriad people together and like everyone who was not even just doing a reading series, but doing, you know, a writer’s group or whatever, and I was like, and the bookstores had just opened up again in the neighborhood after—oh my God, I think it was like Seabourn’s Books, wow I have not even accessed that memory in a long time—we didn’t have any bookstores for a second! You know, its like, what? You know, and suddenly we had Enigma Bookstore who opened up an Astoria Bookshop and I was like we need to get all these people, in one room, and like have them talk to each other, and have them—I met an amazing woman Wendy, who was doing things further out in Queens—and just like suddenly, you know, these threats came, were just showing up, and instead of wanting to compete with them, I was always like sticking my hand out, being like, let’s all work together, let’s like talk to each other, lets figure this out and I got on TV for it, which is crazy, I got on New York 1 that year. 
Khylla Watson: Wow. Oh my gosh, wow. What did that feel like?
Audrey Dimola: Oh my God. Nuts! You know, to be like—and the thing that was even more nuts about it, was that I just, I tweeted to Rocco Vertuccio on New York 1, right, you never think? And literally, he was like send me info, tweeted back, you know, and then I sent him info and he was like come in on Thursday. That is literally it! You know, and that’s why I tell everyone, I’m like, do the thing that you do not know, right, like it seems like its nothing but you have no idea what could happen and later on I got to go back on New York 1 to talk about my own book, which was really crazy. Rocco had me on again, so it was like, super surreal. 
Khylla Watson: I can’t believe you said that in 2013, that was the first time that there was a bookstore around. 
Audrey Dimola: The first time there was a bookstore again. I don’t know if I’m messing up the name, Seabourn’s Books was there a really long time on Broadway and it closed, and then, you know, later on, there was a bookstore, there were some Barnes and Nobles around, or at least there was one on Austin Street, which also closed, which triggered other friends of mines to want to start the Queens Bookshop Initiative, which made a bookstore in Q Gardens. But, you know, like trying to look into it, Enigma Bookstore unfortunately was like a sci-fi themed bookstore and it didn’t last super long and we lost that one but Astoria Bookstore, you know, is surreal to imagine. This the only—especially because we don’t have this like big Barnes and Nobles store anymore—so there were things at some points but that store had closed. 
Khylla Watson: Well, ok. So, you said you were kind of doing a lot of things, you know, like branching out into the community, starting your own groups, bringing everyone together, so of course you spiraled down and landed at Socrates Sculpture Park, so what was that like? How did that start? Who did you meet? What was that experience like?
Audrey Dimola: Que life explosion! Basically like the trajectory of my life was, you know, I started off at that arts magazine, when I got fired from that—the same day—the same day I got picked up by a blog about Long Island City, which was this great girl that I knew in the neighborhood, it was called LIQ City. So, those, like I felt like those were right on mission, like they say, right like these are things I want to be doing, right, I’m working in media, I’m working in the neighborhood. And after I lost that gig—que the kind of like spinning out into whatever random job comes across my table, right, as you do—you know, and like, so that’s when I became a project manager for a web and mobile development company, you know, and then all the other jobs I listed on that pre-interview survey from there going to be a dog-handler at a doggy day care, going, you know, working at a yoga studio. I even like worked for a family friends plastic surgery office—super weird, you know, like—I was a temp in the legal department of the Port of Authority, like totally, I was a babysitter. I was a bike messenger for Grubhub, right. But the saving grace for me through all of that was always doing this creative stuff on the side and that is what led me to Socrates eventually. Because even though I had this resume that looked coo-coo-loo-ku, I could say, like I self-published these books, you know, I’ve like made all these connections with these cultural institutions—like Queens Council On the Arts, like Queens Museum—suddenly, I found myself being asked by the Queens Poet Laureate to curate the local stage of his massive festival at the Queens Museum. Or like Queens Council On the Arts, you know, after we started our relationship, or solidified our relationship, rather because I knew them from previously when I worked as a journalist, you know, they were like we need poets, right, like and spoken word and music like for the block party, Audrey, you do it. You know, suddenly, like my name was out there, out there, swirling around and people were thinking of me and I was just like tenacious and insane and like anything. You know, I had either full-time jobs, or just like myriad jobs all over the place and just still like you have to have this drive, even if on the side, right, to like do the things that you love. And like more often than not I was free, you know, like I was happy when like I got a stipend or something, but it was not the caveat, you know. It was like, I didn’t do this, and I have all these amazing people that thankfully rally behind me also and like they also didn’t ask for pay. They were just like we just want to do this with you, you know. I also want to mention my friend Gus Rodriguez who is the booker at LIC Bar. He was the one, before the Queens Literary Town Hall, he gave me my first gig to host a show. He gave me a space. And so it’s like all these people in your life, open the door for you and crack, but you have to run through it, right, and take it. I can not stress enough, just like, how these small kindnesses of these people changed my life forever, you know, Liz and you know working with Justin, and working with Gus, to do my first show. So, yeah and then culminating with, getting to know, and just like saying yes to everything! I feel like, you know, you get to a point eventually where you can’t but when you’re first starting, like, say yes, you know, and just like meet all these people because you never know. And like, everything in my life sprouted in another way. You know, I started a relationship with this awesome woman at the Latimer House Museum and then suddenly me and my creative tribe get carte blanched to create a sight specific theatrical experience in the Latimer House Museum in Flushing. You know, just like, here’s the keys to a historic house, have fun, like what? And like, I had met someone who worked at Queens Council On the Arts when I was a journalist, his wife works at LaGuardia Preforming Arts Center—got in there to do my most massive show, ever, which then like killed me because I—it ran like, two and a half hours, or one. I want to say less to make it sound better but its totally true. Like, too long; it ran too long. But just like being able to experiment in all these ways eventually, you know this was later, doing a show all about the intersections of art and mental illness. You know, doing a show about like trauma that we carry in the body, it was called Church and Sacred Body, so like over time just pushing edges. And so I had, in 2015, I was a project manager again from a referral from my original job and I was living in Brooklyn, for that one year-ish, you know, and I was engaged, and then I called everything off. I quit the job, I left the guy and like crash landed back home in Queens and then was like, now its time to find myself. Now it’s the time to figure out how to love myself, right, and figure out what I really want to do. Because again, right, like all of these just like random, random, random jobs, you know, and like yeah taking whatever was coming across my plate. I was also like taking gigs, hosting open mic for In The Inspired Word—which is a great organization—so literally it was like towards the tail end—you know, it was just like this amazing summer that I just like ran around until y money was gone. I was training as a wilderness guide, mostly for free, in the Catskills. I was like living the dream. I was just like what is my heart saying to me? What do I want to do? And then, yeah crashing back in a super low point. No money, no real place of my own, and just like directionless, you know, and dealing with like mental health stuff. Like super bad depression, and my coming out of that, like making a decision to like dig out and again be like, ok, the next job I get has to be the job. I remember, like, I was crashing at my ex-boyfriend’s house, who was a God-sent and like let me stay there in my turmoil and I remember like sitting at the table and really thinking about it and I was like I want to work with parks, I want to work with kids, I want to work with art. You know, and I was like applying for like an urban farm job on Randle’s Island—I was applying to be like a playground associate, which sounds the most amazing job ever—with New York City Parks and you know, just like really trying to just change my trajectory because I didn’t want to be a journalist anymore I didn’t, you know, like—and all of these other interests had just like popped up organically over time and I did not realize until starting to work at public programs. That’s what it is! This whole time, right? And literally like my mom just told me by chance, she was like check Noguchi, check Socrates and I’m like no one’s ever hiring! No one’s ever hiring! And like, for whatever reason I checked anyway, and they had a job that I mistakenly thought was from the current year—it was from last year and I called up about it and I felt really embarrassed. And they were like but, you know, that job position is old but we are shaping that position for this year. So, I literally caught it before it was even out. And they were like send us your resume and I like stayed up all night and wrote this like gushy cover about like Socrates is my special place, ever since I was kid I feel like I’ve seen like every exhibition, you know like, and then being able to like point at all this insane journey that I’ve done, right, like, everything on the side, on the side, and literally I got the email, come in. Come Thursday, the director of poet programs wants to interview you. Like again, right, these like pivotal moments of you know like, I feel like Socrates chose me. Like it was just very strange because I worked under this woman who, again, like—I feel like I get emotional about these like pivotal people in my life that just like, you know, her name is Pasqualina Azzarello, and she made me feel like I had a place in an arts institution whereas before I had a chip on my shoulder, you know, and I was like, I don’t fit in anywhere. I’m like too loud, I too this, I’m too that, you know. I don’t have a museum background or I don’t you know, like—I didn’t go to arts school, you know like, I didn’t—I don’t have, I just like did all of this, boots on the ground, like from my gut, and that’s like all I have to say about it, right, like I don’t have a Master’s, like nothing, you know. And, we just like clicked in this cosmic way and it turned out, you know, we were together, running the public programs at Socrates. And it turned out a couple months in, that she was making a decision to leave Socrates very unexpectedly because of life changes in her life and she was like, I need you to think about your life, what your future looks like and what you want. And I was like, what’s happening?! You know, like meanwhile I’m thinking like I found a mentor, I’m going to like go to the season and like from her, and maybe someday I’ll be the director of public programs and suddenly she’s like, I’m going and if you want to throw your hat in the ring, tell me and I will tell the executive director. And me like, crisis of like I’m totally not ready, right like, some adult is going to come in and do this job because I was still like shirking, you know, my worth. And then I was like, I would be effing crazy to not at least try, so I tried, you know, and I got interviewed and they were interviewing other people who were older me, like, had education backgrounds because you know, were professors, had master’s degrees, whatever it was. You know, and like, I kind of like let it go because I didn’t like hear back and I was like ah well. And they freaking ended up choosing me! You know, and they were like, we’re willing to support you, like you have all these things that you can’t teach that are coming from your heart and your enthusiasm and you know, here we freaking go! And so, that’s what I mean, its been like—this process of coming into this directorship is just so much more than what I even imagined. Do you know, like the whole first year and like after I—so like towards the—like literally I got the job in April, Pasqualina and I overlapped in August, and I was alone by September. 
Khylla Watson: Of this year?
Audrey Dimola: 2016. Yeah. Do the logistics for the fundraising gala. Do the last two festivals by yourself. And now do the budget for next year. You know what I mean and these are like large scale outdoor events with like thousands of people. Logistics, folks working under me and just like—you know I was so caught up in not screwing up and like proving that I had a right to be there that I wasn’t, yeah, this problem kid with a chip on her shoulder that somehow snuck in through the back door, to realize like I deserve to be here. And realizing that this job and this directorship is not just about checking off the boxes, making sure that the events happen, you know, everything happens, and execute, execute, execute, you know its what I’ve done. The first year was amazing, but also, like, really tough and in like every way, like I pushed myself. You know there were times we’d do a incredible festival and them I’m like crying on the floor of my office after because, I’m like—every bit of me was just like scraped out. I had no boundaries; I had no self-care protocol like, and just whatever was necessary to be for it, you know, and like coming around to. I also had like myriad crisis in my life. Relationships and mental health wise, you know, and just like going through all of that and like realizing who I am, and showing up for myself, has helped me this year to just like be so present and like convene with the energy of the park and the history of the park and that sacred space that’s there. My sacred space and like dig in with these employees that I have which are all like these amazing youth.  With all different life experiences and we’ve all just had this insane transformational experience right, and I’m like, my God its not just about not screwing it up, you know, like, and you know Pasqualina told me, like her immortal words, she’s like no matter how much you try not to fall in a trap, you’re going to fall in the trap, like you will just not see it from a million miles away. Doesn’t matter, you know, how hard you’re trying or how careful you’re trying to be. You know, but like its not about falling in the trap it about how you get out of it, right? Like, take responsibility, like the grace with which you come out of it, you know and just yeah, owning it. And if its ugly, its ugly, because goddamn it, its usually ugly, you know. So really, like I’m growing up fully, like at Socrates into this position and its not just this job, its like what is teaching me in my own life, yeah, self-care wise, boundary wise, being healthy wise, showing up in life, trying to short circuit like a lot of really tough patterns in—a lot of tough self-defeating patterns that I’ve had pretty much had my whole life—so. Long, crazy, story, right? 
Khylla Watson: Yeah, but amazing at the same time. It’s just amazing. Do you feel like working there has kind of blurred the creative energy that you’ve felt for the past couple of years? You know, having all of these numbers, and all of these responsibilities. Do you feel like you can still juggle the creativity aspect of yourself how you did before? Or now do you feel that its kind of dwindling down because I know you wrote a book, Wildlight, this past year, so I just want to know how you were able or if you’re able to juggle creativity and work? 
Audrey Dimola: That’s an awesome, really awesome question. I, yeah, like really since the Ins and Outs days, I didn’t have a creative day job. Really. They’re all creative in their own way but like in terms of this kind of output like from yeah, your gut and your heart, like because programs is not just like you’re doing a thing; you’re holding space you know and there are times when I’m like dead after it you know because you’re holding the energy of all those souls. You know, you’re creating a safe space and also for my employees and like its not anything of what it just seems like on paper right, its like a huge energetic expense. I mean, yeah. So what I’m actually trying to do now—its funny that you ask—is like, you know Socrates is just a beast, like, you know and that has to be my priority, right, like I cannot let this thing get out of control. I have to be—like show up for my employees, for myself, for the park, for you know, all these events and like, I just blew myself out the first year. You know, I did like the most robust season Socrates had probably ever had, ever! And I like almost killed myself in the process, right, like everything happened, but like, I’m a shell of a person. So, Wildlight—so like what I was speaking of, of Wildlight, like what I’m realizing now, is how do I work with the seasonal nature of Socrates as it exists right now because my live season is May to October—April to October. That’s when we’re creating—especially in the summer we’re crazy—its just like not really realistic. At this point, maybe some years down the line I’ll feel more, you know, acclimated, and be able to do it but its too, yeah, it has absolutely been challenging. Because of course like, at the Port of Authority, I’m sitting at my desk like making like poetry stickers and like cutting them out because I finished my work already and nobody cares, you know what I mean? Sorry, Port of Authority. But, yeah, having things that you can just shut off or maybe are not as much of an energetic output, you know, this is like super challenging. To then come home and be like, alright, I’m going to work in my show now or I’m going to work on my book now, you know. So, I produce, in the off-season-ish time, is when I’m like performing a lot, you know and trying to curate and like pushing out Wildlight was like right at the edge of where the season was going to start and I was like if I don’t do this now, I’m going to get hit in a tidal wave. You know so then it was like every night I was staying up to two, three, four, like, and that was work from the past three years of editing it together so it wasn’t like sitting and writing a book, it’s like a culmination of poetry. So just like pushing it. Ugly, ugly, like, you know. Just like committing to this has to, you know, this has to happen because I had a previous due date of Fall 2017, missed it, you know, and so it’s like, woah, ok, y’know and I hadn’t missed, y’know I did two books previously and was able to like crank it out and I was like, this is really tough this time! You know, what is happening? Even like the content of the book was like super tough. So what I’m trying to do now and now that we’re like slipping into the off season—literally today was the first day that I like had some studio time to work on what I want to be like my next creative project because I felt really stifled in my own sphere because I’m like I can’t—I don’t want to do another book again, right, and I don’t want to perform my work. Like I want to make a one woman’s show that integrates like what I’ve been through and has movement and ritual and like ugliness and danger and beauty, and poetry and like in three dimensions and its terrifying because I have no idea of what I’m doing. I don’t have a map. But like that’s what you’re supposed to do right? Like, so realizing like ok Audrey, y’know, you are going to have to get up early and like rent studio time and do this or else its going to be an idea in your head because this show has been following me around for me a minute and giving me anxiety because it needs to come out. Y’know and feeling that itch again of like trying to discern my Socrates self and things that fit well and serve Socrates and my own stuff and where that those things can blur because of course like I’m curating these things, so it’s my heart and the way I hold space, but I’m not going to like do right, the same things at Socrates that I would do somewhere else. So, starting to—like I want to get back in that like tenacious mode, you know where I started. Where I was like emailing everybody, right, and just like wedging my foot in like every door and what could I cook up here? Like what thing can I do and try, and try, and try and I feel like you know, getting older and having been in the scene—quote on quote—in the neighborhood, its like you can get burned out and lose your edge and stay in the comfort zone. Y’know? Like now, going to a mic is like it’s easy, right, putting my poetry out there and speaking about all of this like vulnerable, crazy stuff, it’s easy, right, it’s like where am I terrified to go?! That’s where I have to go! And yeah, there’s like a girl I met recently, Shanice, and she started an open mic at this place called Flower Power, further out in Queens, and I’m like, seeing her, I’m seeing myself. I just see her tenacity and I’m like yeah. Remember that?! Y’know? And also like I’ve had just huge like transformational experiences on like the spiritual end, kind of in the ways, y’know, back at the beginning of this conversation we were talking about Emerson and Rumi and like that has changed you know how I can apply my art, it feels different; it feels alchemical. It feels like a prayer, it feels like energy, it feels like something’s happening. I’m not just like reading my work. It’s like oh, this makes ripples in the atmosphere. And so to realize this can work in different situations, like we can hold this reading like ceremony and I can apply to different things to read with a different mindset instead of just like I’m just going to read an open mic or I’m just like going to the show, there just like this layer that’s been peeled away and everything is merged. It’s like its all the same, like this alchemy, this transformation. So that’s been really exciting but challenging as hell yes. Great question. 
Khylla Watson: That’s amazing. I’m blown away. So, I don’t really want to—sorry to back track—but you were talking about your shows and, that’s what I wanted to get into next, but what was your first show like and what has it been like you know having more new shows? What is the transformation? What has the transformation looked like from your first show until now? And maybe to what you’d like to do. I know you were just talking about putting more energy and putting more affirmations into the universe. So, what is that like? Y’know, what’s going on with your shows? 
Audrey Dimola: Yeah, every question I’m like great question because they seriously are! They really are! Yeah, what I just mentioned actually is like the perfect segway of realizing like this is all the same, y’know, like I felt really drawn to like a shamanic path and the symbol and metaphor of the shaman of what they do, right, that they’re like leading you to what’s real in effect, right, to the other world, right, to bring back information. 
Khylla Watson: If I can interrupt, where did that come from?
Audrey Dimola: Oh yeah, so—I feel like it could like go as far back as like Pocahontas in 4th grade and being really drawn to like Native American spirituality and like God and nature, and in the animals, and spirit. So, I was always an earthy, like, wild child kid from then. I grew up Catholic though, like we got baptized, ate communion, but you know it was—and my parents were both not devout, they just did it because they’re Italian and like y’know, you just gotta do it, you know? But like, none of my—like my brother or my sister didn’t make conformation, you know we didn’t continue—it wasn’t like baked into us. Thankfully, you know I inherited and through watching my mother’s like spiritual exploration, you know, we were young and she’s literally reading books about quantum physics, dead sea squirrels, you know, like the lost gospels of Jesus Christ, and just like the Kabbalah, and just like questioning, exploring and like. So always, there was this idea that you don’t need a medium; you don’t need a church, you don’t need a priest, you don’t need whatever. Like you can go right to the source, and so for me, finally, like my way back around even to my own faith—to like the mythology and imagery of my own faith—was through starting with this like shamanic path and being drawn to shamanism and that happened [57:24] through like literally just going to events. Like, I’m trying to—like was there even like a specific point where this started happening? Women Who Run With the Wolves. I’m literally looking at the altar that is taking up one half of my room. You know, suddenly realizing, ok, there’s something here and again, all these threads just like appearing. But experiencing it in actual life was what changed me, like there’s this organization called Golden Drum in Brooklyn and they do this amazing heart and mind festival and they bring all these cultures from different places and you know there were these like Mahika dancers and like they’re leading us to call in the four directions. And everyone’s doing it together, y’know and its in the same way that it could’ve happened in a church, right, and you’re like saying the things that you’re supposed to say. But it felt right. In a way that like other things did not, you know, and I was like there is something here and then just like going deeper into that, and like this idea of the Wild Woman, and wild spirituality, and the self and like just this hunger to experience other cultures’ myths and folklore and legends. And then going to, and having amazing friends also on the path who were doing this, and doing their own ceremonies and stuff like that; reading things so the more that I started walking to that—there’s also this organization called New York Shamanic Circle, where they do this amazing shamanic gathering in the great hill at Central Park and I remember going there and again these Mahika dancers were there and it was like Celtic shamans, Yoruban shamans, you know, like Italian shamans and I was like what?! Y’know so experiencing spirit in a living way and then realizing, oh my God, I’ve been doing this all along in ways I didn’t even realize. So like, I feel like the biggest thing that’s happened to me now is like merging all these selves, where there was like, ok, this person who feels like they’re on the shamanic path and then there’s this like this like worker person, and then there’s a poet person, right, but it’s like wait. And that’s what I think one of the biggest things I’ve learned since the beginning, from that first show, is like not having the same nervousness in the same way and like understanding—this amazing poet was like, the day you do not have nerves is the day you should quit. Because it means you don’t care about it anymore. And I tell it to everybody I can because it changed my perception, right? So, its like looking at everything as an opportunity now. Or its just like I’m not just doing a show, I’m not just hosting, not whatever. Like, we’re holding a container. How do I make these people feel safe? How do I get these people to push their edges? You know, and that is what my first show was. It was called Nature and the Muse, and it was reading and live writing, by the fire, in LIC Bar. So that opportunity from my friend Gus and I was y’know going to all these readings, volunteering and just like taking the pieces, right, this works, this doesn’t work, this works, this works, and I was like, crafting this thing, y’know of like—it’s four or five writers and they read their previously written works but then the twist of it is that I ask everyone in the audience to write something on a piece of paper, it can be like an actual writing prompt or it can just be like an image, or a word, or like a song title, whatever the hell they want—I don’t censor it—it can be perverse, I don’t mind. And so the writers read their regular work, this is the poems that I’ve written on my own time and then they pull some out of the hat, that the audience wrote, and they have to go downstairs in the dungeon—quote on quote—in the basement of LIC Bar and they have to write for like five to seven minutes, that’s it, and then they have to come up and share it. So its like terror all around, right, like and the audience has a reason to stay because they want to see if someone go their prompt, right, and it showed me how much I love being this like trickster spirit, because like I began to see oh my God look what happens when you like push people to like trust themselves. And everyone was always terrified, terrified to do the show, y’know, but like every time it was like hilarious or brilliant or like so surprising and for myself also, because I was super afraid to trust myself in that way. Ok, that’s a save having a mic and having a thing, you know, but to trust myself in an improvisational way which I hadn’t done since like playing party quirks in high school, you know like, and just improving like as a person, y’know and as I started doing all these things I just like—again speaking about the banner that I’m carrying, it’s like you realize that over time you get stripped of the things that you knew when you were a kid. Because you know everything when you’re a kid, right? You could be anything. You had no fear, you know like whatever you wanted to be you just were and you saw wonder in everything and you just learned and if you messed something up—and I was just like, this is ludicrous and like criminal that the world—well I don’t even want to say the world—that society, whatever, the structures that exist like beat it out of us. So that is like my banner and my work. How do I get the sense of play? How do I like, experiment with people? How do I get them to trust themselves? You know, and so many like blessed moments of like either shepherding this person to read for the first time or shepherding this person to stand up and speak about this trauma or like whatever it is that I can like help do [1:03.26] you know and its like going back to Rainer Maria Rilker, with like Letters to a Young Poet. One of the things that he was writing is like he’s giving advice to this young poet and he’s like, don’t think for a second—I’m like grossly paraphrasing—but like, don’t think for a second that like I’m able to tell you this because I’m totally fine, I’m not. And I went through all these things so that I can, y’know, and so like, I would always be like if it appears to you that I’m holding the keys, just open your hands, you have them too. So, that’s been the big thing and like I was saying to you just realizing like when I get comfortable, I have to move and its really hard to move sometimes. Usually I’m really good at being transformer, and like understanding that and going after it but then like getting to this point where like there’s a lot of stuff with moving in the body and like that’s related to like my life and to trauma and like reclaiming myself, right, so like to be a performer in three dimensions fully and like trust yourself with that, has like all these other layers that like getting a mic and reading my work and I can hear in my voice just like the clarity in it, like the power in it. Like as opposed to when I first started and not saying obviously, I don’t screw and f’ things up, but I realize y’know like, things that I do don’t follow the norm. That’s why my shows run long and I beat myself up for it like to no end and I was like God, I’m like such—I’m so unqualified to do this, blah blah, you know, but its like I’m doing more than that; I’m on shaman time and I realize that like recently like when the shaman is healing, you know, and like I’ve met these amazing medicinal men from Mexico and they were like however long the healing lasts, that’s how long it lasts. Whether its eight hours or five minutes, right. And its like, if I’m holding this container like at Queens Council On the Arts, when we did that mental health show, it was a container like I had never experienced. And the show ran, yeah, hours too long. Thank God, Milando Jones, another amazing person, he stuck with us, but I was like watching this and participating and feeling and there’s no way I’m going to be like time to go! You know, like is more than just a show, this is more—so that’s where I feel like all of this has gone and even at Socrates too like the more that I can own who I am and feel clear in expressing that, right, like and I like slipped in some shamanism like on stage at Socrates and just like however you can channel your true self, like it makes all the difference and I hear that from people like in Socrates, y’know, attendees to the shows commenting about me or about my staff you know like, what you put into that is so real. So yeah. 
Khylla Watson: Has anyone ever been inspired, like you know, came up to you like wow that really moved me? What was that like? What kind of experience was that? 
Audrey Dimola: Yeah, oh my God, I mean those are the most humbling experiences and it can be with anything, you know especially like with my own work and that’s when I realize, right—going back to Emerson now—his quote, trust thyself, every heart vibrates to that iron string, right. The more personal you get, the more it reaches people. And like literally I have put like things that I thought I would never say, right, that I would never share, like its all out there and that’s also how I’ve also kind of made a name for myself, which also has made people very uncomfortable and it feels dangerous, right, and then it’s like you take that with it because its more important to me to be myself and like, life is ugly man! Like, no, really, this stuff happens! And like I really feel like the places I’ve been enable me to do this work and help people and its like then I have to accept that you know, why do we go through these awful things? To like, bottle them up and pretend they didn’t happen? Y’know? That’s like the transformative experience and I remember like I did a performance that was edging out into this space, its called Reliquary the Body, and like the first line of it was: I was studying for midterm exams in my freshman year of college when I found out I was pregnant. Like, just like, here we go. Tracing this like origin story of this like trauma of my body and my decisions and my relationships, and I was like terror, like terror; like everything in me was like you’re going to mess this up, you’re going to forget the words, like so much just awful energy in my body but like somehow I did it and I like cried afterwards and I came out and like all of these people were like, I was crying, I was this, and it reminded me of myself and its like woah, wow. So its like how can I not—I feel like when you get that affirmation, and I always have—right, the more vulnerable I am, the more I put myself out there, the more I like, yeah, and like walking on this path of truth in myself, the more I’m affirmed. So how can I go back? Even if people have told me, you can’t possibly say that. What about your reputation? What are people going to think of you? You’re a director. You can’t, like, have potential mental illness. You know, I’m like that’s real life! And that’s what’s been so transformative for me with working with these youth at Socrates, like, I’m like oh my God I have a chance now to be the boss that I want to have, right, that I like wish I could’ve had and literally we put that out there from like that first meeting. Like self-care is number one, like if you’re having a mental health crisis, tell me. If you’re feeling anxious and like you don’t want to come to work, or like you need a moment during the festival, like—to make that make space and literally like—these kids changed my life, like these kids changed the way I think about everything. I’m calling them kids but they’re like eighteen/nineteen. To see what happens when you like take a risk, you know, and I share these like really intimate stories with them about my own life and like it has bonded us, together in a way that they’re like, shouldn’t do that. I’m saying they, whoever they is, y’know. Like don’t let your employees know so much about you—don’t break the fourth wall, like they’re your employees not your tribe, they gotta know who is in charge, you know, and I’m like—I  never resonated with that. And now to like be in a space where I’m like look how like these kids are all willing to like and breath the Socrates spirit and like you know they have come in when they’re sick. You know what I mean? Like they’re invested not to the place but to each other. And that’s what I feel like I’m here to do, you know, when I get out of my own way and remind other people, like, you can get out of your own way too and to learn from people have gotten out of their own way. 
Khylla Watson: Wow. You really have a way of bringing people together, its very apparent. So, well of course, I mean you, your life, and experience have inspired your work, but is there anything else that inspires you? Maybe it is something that is daily, maybe its gratitude? Is there something specific or multiple things that inspire you? 
Audrey Dimola: Yeah, it’s that like sense of living spirit, now. Of like realizing that everything at any moment is talking to you. Like there is metaphor, and imagery, and symbolism and its meaning is everywhere and you can choose to not see it and think that like someone else needs to take you there or that you cant get there or like, right, whatever story it is. Or you can like start like putting your feet on the ground and like feeling what’s actually here and not saying that that’s always beautiful either but its like to have an authentic experience of life, you know, and like it actually ties into Socrates, Mark Di Suvero, the founder of Socrates, who is one of my heroes—a living legend—you know everyone is like why the hell is the park named Socrates, right, why is it named after a philosopher, and Mark, actually just at our fundraiser gala, he was like, Socrates lived a search for truth. That’s what this place is about, y’know and Mark quoted Socrates as saying wisdom begins with wonder. And I think wonder is everything. Like, Borges was also like without enchantment everything is useless. Like you need to be able to see through that and break the fourth wall and like whatever it is that’s like telling you that life is just ho-hum and you gotta go to work and you gotta do this, and you gotta fall in line—y’know like I’ve never—I’ve always like resisted so hard against that in ways that also spited myself, right, like I damaged my jobs, I damaged relationships because I was so gung-ho on like exploding every limit. Like I had peter pan syndrome for a long time, didn’t want to grow up, you know, and like just subverted a lot of that and now I feel like what growing up is, is like keeping that childlike spirit but with the wisdom of being an adult and you’re not coming from a petulant place, you’re coming from like a wiser place and you know you can do the same thing, but your not—literally my therapist told me this—she was like how much more powerful can you be as an adult who can make change rather than a child screaming to the wind, right? Why are you choosing that? Choose to be real, choose to get old and die and like make an impact in this finite amount of time that you have. So yeah, I feel like in my most filled up living moments is like feeling all of that, feeling spirit, feeling everything talk to me, feeling, you know, yeah, like I was saying God and nature. Feeling all these things that like I read about and seemed so mystical to me, now I’m like that’s what you mean. I understand, y’know. And it’s there for everybody. The other thing that inspires me is self-care and self-love because it was just so absent on my journey and like small things, like I’m going to go home and make dinner for myself and go to sleep early, you know what I mean, like small things—I’m going to make this altar in my room and I’m gonna like, you know, take a bath, and I’m gonna—I started getting into sensory deprivation floating, if you’re interested in that at all, I could hook you up—doing that, and like eating well, and just like, that has been a huge source of wonder. Like, oh my God, I really like can be in control. And growing up does not have to suck. 
Khylla Watson: Wow! You’re just amazing! 
Audrey Dimola: I love you girl, we’re going to be friends after this video. You hear that whoever. 
Khylla Watson: *Laughs* I think we kind of covered everything that I was going to ask you. You did great. So I guess, to go into wrapping this up, where do you see yourself in the next couple of years or do you have any predictions? 
Audrey Dimola: Scary question! Ha! Whenever someone asks me that I like clam up. But I feel like, you know, its so funny because for the majority of my life I was like I’m going to live and die in Queens and I don’t want to live anywhere else. You know, and like, I know that I’ll always have my roots here, my home here, but like I think at some point I’d love to experiment living somewhere else. I recently, I was like a reclamation journey and to finish Wildlight, I took a Greyhound to the desert by myself, to Santa Fe, and I had like this spiritual pilgrimage and like fell in love with that place. You know, and I—feel like I didn’t get to have that time where I—yeah, it could be like I’m going to make the decision to live here for like a month, or like just be an artist inhabiting that, and doing a residency or something like that. So that’s like, in the ether but I feel like right now, like my life is so Socrates and like this like transformative insane experience that it’s been, and growing with it, and growing into it, and just like being there and just balancing the rest of my life, creating this healthier life for myself with different patterns, or like not patterns, actually—taking the patterns away—and like continuing to move into these spaces of daring and how do I continue merging all these things that I am with movement, with ceremony, with doing the things that terrify me, y’know. [1:17:24] Yeah because at the end of the day I think with everything right I’m a servant of the people, like that’s what I always say. Like, whether its at Socrates and we’re like doing like summer solstice or we’re doing jazz night, you know, or it’s like, helping someone one on one,  or like curating our smaller show that can be more experimental, it’s like that’s what I want to do and I do feel like the heroes journey, like Joseph Campbell was saying, and you know like these shamanic paths that like the shaman goes into the other world or into the underworld, y’know, the hero descends to bring—and goes through these traumas to bring back this information. And I’ve been through so much, especially in the past three years since I left that engagement, some like incredible things and so many dreams lived and so many like awful things that I like didn’t think I would survive, frankly, y’know. And so like, how do I continue using that and how do I continue helping other people to share their stories too? Because that’s what we have to do, that’s what we have to do. Right, its like, we are meaning makers, and that’s why I have tattooed on my arm: live your legend, which also like grew out of Joseph Campbell, y’know of like, this is whatever the hell we want it to be. This can be ho-hum do-drums, life sucks, and then you die, or it can be like, I’m going to perceive like spirit in everything! And I have spirit guides, and I have like mythological creatures, you know what I mean, and I’m going to like to create this world because why the hell shouldn’t I? I’m here. 
Khylla Watson: Yes, yes. I completely understand. Believe me. Well, what about—because you said that Queens has always been your home and being as though you said you want to get into a space where you’ll be able to move on, you know, start a different life or just have the strength and courage to live the true life of an artist—do you see yourself breaking away from this?
Audrey Dimola: That’s what I don’t know. [1:19:45] And like I’ve always been so bad with like, where do you see yourself in five years, I’m like I have no idea because literally my life changes every day, every hour. That’s like bipolarity, but also like real life, y’know. So like, I love Queens because this is my place, you know? This is my roots like, and this place I felt like has needed so much cultivation of like—we have culture here, we have art here, we have music here, we have writers here, you know, like, and to really—yeah, again, I’m going to say banner, because of the banner like ten thousand times, y’know of like getting us on the map, getting us recognized, whatever it is. 
Khylla Watson: Do you feel you’ve planted a seed in Queens, in this community?
Audrey Dimola: I feel like I do. I hope so, like I hope so, but I feel like I do. Like yeah, you know because its like now I look at that literary scene and there’s so much and like I had just mentioned, you know, that girl Shanice that I just met, and like people are starting things. You know, I was like I need to do a literary town hall again, y’know there’s so much now.  And I feel like, yeah, with the gentrification, you know the good thing is that there are a lot of people moving in—if the people who are moving in want to dig in to their community that’s amazing. I don’t mind it, of course it like really sucks, like losing the beautiful houses and also straight up and down it sucks not being able to live here, right—affordable housing, right—but like, I can never say I don’t want new people to move in here, y’know, and I’ve watched countless people just fall in love with Astoria. In ways they don’t fall—like, these are actors, dancers, folks from like elsewhere in the United States or the Midwest whatever and you’re just like, this feels like home. Like, that’s so special. Y’know, and to—so I feel like if I went anywhere else it would probably just further prove like how special this place is. You know, like, there’s a magic here and like I do at Socrates right, it’s my responsibility to uphold that y’know as the neighborhood is changing. This has to be the meeting place of the people, right, like we’re surrounded by the projects, we’re surrounded by condos coming up, y’know, and then we have folks like me who have lived here our whole life. How do you maintain the space that accommodates all? You know? Because like Socrates also had really—that’s a whole ‘nother conversation—that had such like rowdy roots and organic roots started by the people for the people and eventually got designated a city park and then over these years become more professional and institutionalized. But as it becomes that, yeah, how do you ensure like the fabric of the people and that neighborhood—and that’s what I’m like really proud of. To stand on my stage and look out at the audience and see the rainbow, right? 
Khylla Watson: Right. And its just so amazing how when you were talking about how the definition of, you know, what the park means and what Socrates means, how your life kind of reflects and mirrors that. I don’t know if that was a question but ok, so for the last thing—this is just like a bonus thing, because I know that you’re a poet and writer, so I was just curious, you know I wanted to hear you recite a poem or anything you can think of that you wrote about yourself, Queens, your life. Anything that you want. So if you listen back to this maybe years down the line you’ll hear it or it’ll remind you something. It could be an answer for you. 
Audrey Dimola: Wow. Ok! Okay, that’s really cool. I’ll already do something from Wildlight, definitely. Yeah. I immediately like jumped to this. So this is a piece towards the end of my third book Wildlight and it came out—a wonderful friend of mine, Yugo Kudo, was doing a show on freedom, and it was like, days to the new year and I had, yeah, just been through so much stuff and actually didn’t realize what I was going to go through in that next week and subsequent months, so like, I was just thinking of the idea of freedom because like—we were kind of dancing around when we were talking—that’s an idea that has chased me around everywhere, right, it has been what made me leave relationships, quit jobs, right, like, break boundaries, y’know, break myself. This idea of staying free, staying free. What the hell, like, what does that mean? And literally I was like standing in my bathroom and I like wrote this on a piece of paper on my toilet seat and like it just came out and I’m like reading this at the show. So: Freedom is one of the divine’s broadest and farthest reaching gesticulations in our universe. It is an energy that once you tap into makes anything possible. I personally have time after time have fallen prey to the idea that once you identify and claim the precious and wild idea of freedom, bang, its done, you get it and you’re free. Forever. Does it totally work that way? The beautiful thing about freedom is that it finds you. This is not about being positive free and triumphant forever from the moment you claim it to the rest of your life. Its about the reality that nothing is linear and solvable in that way. Freedom is really about honesty with yourself for where you actually are and that’s why freedom is so powerful. It can find you in the darkness, at the end of your rope, inside a jail cell, in recovery, with a knife in your hand, on top of a bridge, in therapy, laying next to you in your own grave. Its not about being consumed with shame and fear and loathing for ending up there, for not staying free. Its about meeting yourself where you actually are and realizing that true freedom is the voice that whispers to you: get up, don’t jump, stay a while, love yourself. And focusing your gratitude and energy on that regenerative spirit is what will really keep you free. I believe we are all messengers, shamans, teachers, healers. The freedom in being yourself, being honest with yourself, is a direct conduit to the divine; the soul of the universe. I say to the light workers, the light bringers—which we all are—don’t get caught up in only bringing light in the shame and disillusionment when you don’t or can’t. The world needs your warrior songs, your songs of struggle, your trials by fire too. That is your real duty. Stand as you are. Speak as you are. And bring it to the world. 



 

