Queens Memory Project
Oral History Interview Timecode Outline

Neighborhood:				Ozone Park, Queens
Date of Interview:			November 26, 2017 
Time Period:				1960 - 2017
Interviewee Date of Birth:		Unknown 
Name of interviewee:			Phil Fabiano  
Name of Interviewer:			Stefani Fabiano  
Length of Interview:			0 hours, 39 minutes, 22 seconds
Name of Editor:				Adrianna Kumar
Editing software:			Adobe Soundbooth 
Timecode Outline Preparer:		Adrianna Kumar 

Summary: Phil Fabiano was born in the 1960s in South Ozone Park, Queens. Throughout his life, he has moved four times. However, he has stayed in the neighborhood because he has a great love for Ozone Park and believes it is a great close-knit neighborhood to raise a family. Although this part of Queens has changed since Phil was a child, he says his children were lucky enough to experience some of what he did growing up. 
00:00:43   Phil was born in South Ozone Park and his first home was a small house right off Rockaway Boulevard. He recalls this house as being a tiny, two-bedroom home. He moved from this residence when he was six years old. 
00:01: When Phil was nine years old in 1970 he moved to 92nd Street across from a parish. He lived here for twenty years. The population did not fluctuate much over the period of time.  Phil recalls a slight population increase in the 1980s, which led to a more culturally diverse neighborhood. 
00:05:53   During the 1990s, Phil moved to a house in Wakefield near the Aqueduct Racetrack with his parents and sister. He described this location as convenient because it was close to his job at JFK Airport. He lived at this location for ten years. 
00:06:47  Phil says things haven’t changed much during his ten years at Wakefield. The main difference he noticed was the cultural gap getting smaller. During this time, he had stopped participating in many outdoor activities, such as basketball, so he did not know his neighbors very well. 
00:07:55   When Phil got married, he decided to stay in the neighborhood. This is because he saw Ozone Park as a great place to raise a family. He also wanted his children to attend the same school that he did as a child.
00:12:30    Phil says the neighborhood was now changing. It is more diverse culturally and religiously (there aren’t as many Catholics as there once was). 
00:13:55     Phil talks about the changes in outdoor and green spaces in South Ozone Park. While he was growing up in the 1960s, Phil says there were many farms by Lindenwood. He now notes the area is more congested and crowded with buildings. 
00:18:09    Phil says the neighborhood lacks as many parks. These parks have been converted into once new schools.
00:21:20   Growing up, Phil says he didn’t wanted to live in any other neighborhood. He wanted his kids to experience the same enjoyment he did as a child and they “kind of did” experience somewhat of he did growing up. The school he went to, Nativity, helped create that close-knit bond within the neighborhood. 
00:22:10     Phil went to Thomas Edison High School in Jamaica, Queens. His zone school was John Adams High School in Ozone Park, Queens. However, he father did not want him to attend John Adams as he wanted his son to learn a trade (which Edison offered) that he could use in the future. He learned the skill of air conditioning and refrigeration. However, instead of using his newly acquired skill, he got a job at JFK airport in the 1980’s and continues to work this to this day. 
00:31:23     Phil recalls attending the 1964 World’s Fair. Even though he was only three or four years old, he remembers his mother pushing him around in a stroller. He described this as a “space age” because of all the new, modern technology. He was especially fascinated by glow in the dark paint and an exhibition for microwaves at the World’s Fair. 
