
Queens Memory Project
Oral History Interview Timecode Outline
	
Neighborhood:				Ozone Park
Date of Interview:			December 2, 2017 
Time Period:				1948 - 2017
Interviewee Date of Birth:		Unknown 
Name of interviewee:			Gerald Fitzsimmons
Name of Interviewer:			Gweyneth Fitzsimmons   
Length of Interview:			0 hours, 40 minutes, 24 seconds
Name of Editor:				Adrianna Kumar
Editing software:			Adobe Soundbooth 
Timecode Outline Preparer:		Adrianna Kumar 

Summary: The interviewee in this conversation is Revend Gerald Fitzsimmons, a Montfort Missionary and the Pastor at Saint Mary Gate of Heaven. He  was born on July 11th 1948, and has spent his childhood and a good amount of his adult life in Queens. Events discussed in this interview are recollections - some of his own, such as the Vietnam War and the moon landing, while others are what his parents and grandparents told him, such as the Great Depression and World War II. Fitzsimmons' grandfather immigrated to the United States in 1903 and initially settled in Brooklyn. Eventually he found his way to Queens and started his family. Fitzsimmons' recalls Ozone Park when he was growing up and compares it to today, stating that if you were to take him away from Queens when he was young and put him back today, he'd still know the difference. A unique trait he attributes to Queens is the vast diversity in the borough and his hopes for the future are that this diversity stabilizes and all these diverse people band together and make each other strong.

00:01:12 Rev. Gerald Fitzsimmons was both on july 11th 1948 in Bedford Stuyvesant, Brooklyn, New York. He was raised in Richmond Hill, Queens, New York until he was fourteen and sent to live in a clergy house. 
00:02:38 The area in which Fitzsimmons grew up in was mostly Irish and German Catholics (1950’s). The families that lived here was typically large (with many children). Fathers often worked in Manhattan while mothers took care of the children and household. 
00:05:20 Fitzsimmons joined the Company of Mary, which is a religious congregation, in 1962 at the age of fourteen. He became a priest in 1975 at the age of twenty-five. He is currently a Montfort Missionary and Pastor at Saint Mary Gate of Heaven. 
00:06:20  The biggest changes the Reverend witnessed during his time living in Queens was the vast diversity of immigrants that had migrated from their home countries. In the 1970’s, the vast majority of the neighborhood was Italian while those of Hispanic descent took over in the 1990’s. From 2000 onward, the neighborhood has become primarily South-Asian. 
00:10:16   Before moving into the clergy house, Fitzsimmons has had many jobs as a student. He recalls a summer job at a country club where he brought home $80 (taxes withheld) weekly. He used this money to pay for his school tuition ($250/year), his sister’s high school tuition ($150/weekly) and was able to give his parents money towards the household. He enjoyed going to games at Yankee Stadium with his friends, where he was able to get a box seat for three dollars.  He says Queens was a great place to grow up because “everyone knew everybody”. 
00:14:55    Fitzsimmons recalls being able to use the subway for fifteen cents and getting milk and half a loaf of bread for twenty-five cents. 
00:18:58    Gerald attended Public School 121 in Ozone Park for kindergarten and went to Theresa of Avila (also located in Ozone Park) up until 8th grade. For high school, he attended a boarding school for young men who aspired to become Montfort priests. 
00:23:55     Fitzsimmons talks about his parents and their relation(s) to Queens. His parents attended high school during the World War II and  Great Depression era(s). They were greatly affected by these unfortunate events as they were immigrants who came from poverty, worked hard, and lost it all. 
00:26:33    Other than the environment changing “demographically”, Gerald explains there are now  apartment buildings where trees used to be due to the population increase. 
00:29:30      Gerald’s hope for the future are that this diversity stabilizes and all these diverse people band together and make each other strong.
00:34:10     Both of Gerald’s parents were born in Brooklyn. His mother went to a commercial high school in Bushwick while his father went to John Adams High School. At twenty-nine, he was diagnosed with Rheumatoid Arthritis, which left his crippled for the remainder of his life. His mother then became a secretary and took on the role of the head of the household. He says his parents lived “decent, honest, hardworking lives for their children”. 

