Queens Memory Project
Oral History Interview Content Outline
City:				 Jackson Heights
Neighborhood (if any): 		
Date of Interview: 		June 26th, 2018
Time Period:			1975 - 2018
Name of interviewee: 	Vallaire Wallace
Name of interviewer: 		Bruce Friedman
Length of interview:		1 hour 15 minutes and 9 seconds in two parts
				Part One is 19 minutes 16 seconds; Part Two is 55 minutes 53 seconds
Name of editor: 		Kiana Bressant
Editing software:		“Adobe Soundbooth CS5”
Timecode Outline Preparer: 	Kiana Bressant

Summary: 	Bruce wears many hats: Gay, Jewish, historian, and political activist to name a few. He overcame a childhood stutter to become a verbose public speaker. In his college years he cruised iconic gay bars, delved into community grassroots activism, and worked at a number of industrial companies. Over the years Bruce has collected a diverse group of friends with their own rich histories. He came to live in Queens later in life but remains a strong, opinionated leader deeply devoted in his community.
00:00:00	This is a Queens Memory Program interview with Vallaire Wallace, at the Queens Center for Gay Seniors in Jackson Heights, NY. It is Tuesday, June 26th, 2018 at 2:00 PM. This was the first Pride Parade held at the Queens Center for Gay Seniors.

00:02:56 	Recalled the events of Manhattan’s Pride Celebration which took place on Sunday, June 24th. Bruce had someone record the parade in lieu of attending. Instead he went to a luncheon hosted in City Island, Bronx, and was able to recruit friends since he was wearing Pride themed jewelry.
00:03:06 	Bruce was born on January 21, 1948. In his youth Bruce attended several schools in the Bronx: P.S. 28 Mount Hope and P.S. 33 Timothy Dwight School on Jerome Avenue below Fordham Road. Additionally, he attended John Peter Tetard Junior High School. He was painfully shy and used to stutter; he often had to take various routes when walking home in order to avoid being beaten up.
00:06:17 	In New Hampshire, Bruce attended a small liberal arts school called Franconia College. Then he transferred to Wilmington College in Delaware (now Wilmington University). With encouragement from his straight friends he changed his behavior and became more self-confident and outgoing. While there, he came out as gay. (?)
00:07:25 	In spite of his loneliness, Bruce was able to befriend a couple at Franconia College; John Saracino and his girlfriend Jill. Together they moved off campus into a house along with two other women. An incident occurred where John beat up another dude for spreading rumors about having a threesome with his roommates. Other friends in the dormitory included Robert Torrez, Michael Schuman, and Michael Schwartz. Bruce eventually became close with Michael Schuman.
00:10:00 	Bruce left Wilmington College and transferred to CUNY John Jay College of Criminal Justice in New York. Simultaneously, Bruce worked at a number of steamship companies in the 1970s, including The United States Navigation Company, Norddeutscher Lloyd (German), and Compagnie Générale Transatlantique (French). He discovered the neighborhood of Queens through cruising various gay bars, frequently traveling from the Bronx to his favorite spaces. Old haunts included The Alley, located on 37th Avenue and 75th Street in Jackson Heights and Ty’s NYC on Christopher Street in Greenwich Village.
00:13:28 	In 1998 Bruce celebrated his 50th birthday and invited a friend from Wilmington College to his party.
00:14:36 	In 1973, Bruce graduated from CUNY John Jay College of Criminal Justice with a Bachelor of Arts in Government.  While there he participated in the John Jay Law Club, and was the program director of the Ramón Emeterio Betances Society. Bruce took a leave of absence but returned to school in August of 1988, attending night classes. He received his Master’s Degree in Government in 1991. He also began working at the New School at this time. Bruce has been living in Briarwood, Queens since 1993.
[00:19:11]	[Vallarie and Bruce took a break in order to recharge the recording device.]
00:19:45  	Bruce became involved in numerous organizations. In April of 1975, Bruce became involved in Congregation Beit Simchat Torah (the “Gay Synagogue”) and remained on the board for twelve years holding various positions. In August of 1997, he joined the Lesbian and Gay Democratic Club of Queens (LGDCQ) at the insistence of a friend from the New School, Brad Usher. Usher persuaded him to run for Treasurer and Bruce was granted the position immediately; members of the board were impressed with his credentials. He remained Treasurer for three years. In later years he became President. Bruce was also Vice President of the Village Independent Democrats.
00:24:18 	Bruce discusses his family’s history and their various opinions concerning his sexuality. Bruce is youngest of three children and is 70 years old.
00:27:10	Jimmy Van Bramer used to be the Vice President of the Queens Lesbian and Gay Democratic Club of Queens. In 2000, Van Bramer left his position after being elected a delegate to the Democratic National Convention (he supported Bill Bradley).  Bruce became Vice President for three years, then President for eight years until 2013.
00:30:11	The borough of Queens holds a lot of political power. Bruce is friends with Daniel Dromm, the representative of District 25.  “Danny” wanted to have a club that was more inclusive and expanded the reach of the Democratic Party in Jackson Heights. The New Visions Democratic Club was founded as a result. Along with Daniel Dromm, Bruce is supporting Catalina Cruz, a Democrat running for State Assembly. They had lunch together.
00:32:29	More information regarding Bruce’s experience within the LGDCQ. While running for President, a contender was inspired to run against Bruce after watching the film Harvey Milk. It didn’t work—Bruce won the majority of the votes. Bruce also expresses surprise that District Attorney Richard Brown has sworn in the new President of the LGDCQ since its founding. Brown is not known for being “gay friendly,” but prosecuted the murderers of Julio Rivera. In 1990, Rivera was attacked by a group of skinheads in the schoolyard of P.S. 69 because he was gay. In his memory, a “Julio Rivera Corner” street sign was installed in 2000 at the southwest corner of 37th Avenue and 78th Street.
 00:34:57 	Winter Pride is an event held at Kettering Hall in Astoria. He went with a number of friends from the Queens Center for Gay Seniors. Bruce speaks about other projects he was involved in.   
00:38:20 	Activism has always been a large part of Bruce’s life, but that developed from his interest in United States History. At the age of seven he could recite all of the presidents and numerous facts about them. He always excelled in the subjects of Government, History, and English. 
00:43:00 	At the New School he always wanted to know what was happening, and everyone liked his personality. However the new president of the school was a “tyrant” due to his excessive downsizing. Although he wanted to stay to take advantage of the pension plan, Bruce left in February 2013.
00:49:19 	Bruce recounts his time with various steamship companies in the 1970s in further detail. For example, he learned how to use a computer program called DOS (DOS, a disk operating system) when he first started working with an unnamed Russian company before abruptly quitting.
00:52:33 	Bruce learned German due to his Austrian-Hungarian German background. Great Grandparents came from Berlin and Budapest. Franz Joseph I of Austria was the emperor of the Austrian-Hungarian Empire. Provides detail about his family relationships.
00:57:05 	In August of 2016 Bruce wanted to attend a Bat Mitzvah in New Jersey for one of his nephews. Unfortunately he had an accident where he fell in his apartment. Then in Manhattan he fell in front of NYU Langone Health but wasn’t assisted because they were worried about a lawsuit. They arrived very late to the party. 
01:04:05 	Bruce has always been close to his sister Margot, who is five years his senior and a prolific card writer. He describes her as having a good judge of character. Bruce wanted Margot to marry a next door neighbor, a dentist named Stanford “Sandy” Israel.  However it didn’t work out—Israel married another woman. His wife eventually left him for another woman. It was very scandalous. 
01:11:25 	Bruce continues to provide anecdotes about his family.
01:14:24 	Bruce ponders how the LGBTQ community will progress going forward. He dislikes the current political environment in Washington D.C., especially the negative rhetoric regarding the transgender and immigrant communities. Attempts to cause division are unhelpful. He hopes that there will continue to be positive change in the future.
