http://www.sunnysidesoundproject.org/?p=269

Written by Sabine Heinlein

“We had films from Russia, England, Japan, Romania, Columbia… and Sunnyside”

Sherry Gamlin, who has organized the Sunnyside Shorts Film Festival since 2007, lives with her cat Betty on 44th Street in Sunnyside. While she jokes “Betty is my longest relationship,” Sherry isn’t a quite what you would consider a wallflower. Energetic and endowed with a twisted sense of humor, Sherry enjoys mobilizing large crowds and getting attention far beyond her neighborhood borders. In the past the short film festival has drawn an audience of over 200 people and submissions from all over the world. The fourth edition will take place on September 25th, 2010 at Sunnyside Community Services.

“We had films from Russia, England, Japan, Romania, Columbia… and Sunnyside,” Sherry said, adding that contributions included comedies, animations and documentaries of up to 25 minutes. “We are open to all cultures,” she said. “We try to stay away from violence and anything we don’t agree with [politically].”

Last year Sherry and her friend Teresa Ward organized a fundraiser at Claret Wine Bar on Skillman Avenue. People played games and celebrated while helping to pay for the space rental fee, the technician who sets up the screen and projector, the photographer who documents the event, as well as flyers, programs and advertising.

Among the special guests and volunteers at the film festival is Sherry’s family, who fly in from Florida for the occasion. While her sister and her niece sell candy, her mother serves as the “chief critic.” 

At the end of our interview, Betty reappeared from the linen closet to listen to Sherry talk about the three short films she made before the Sunnyside Shorts Film Festival started taking up all of her spare time. While I was briefly distracted by Betty’s large black spot on her otherwise white behind—“I found her in an inkwell in Sunnyside Gardens,” Sherry joked—I decided to feature this excerpt from our conversation for its humor and originality. 




Transcript Notes

We try to stay away from violence and anything we don’t agree with in a political [sense]. I try to be open to all culture.

Films in Spanish w/ subtitles. “We had amazing films. I hope everybody can come this year. 

She’s the jury, Theresa Ward, Susan Walsh, Matt Fabino, Jesse Gabriel (this year)

Gest around 50 films
1 h 45 minutes

up to 25 minutes

“We don’t like to bore anyone. We like short filsm. We all have short attention spans these days. 

Last year started giving awards, script writing awards and direction awards

Fundraising to off-set cost

Rent comm. Center, technician to set up, screen and VCR, refreshments, print programs, flyers, advertisements, suggested donation of $10. Photographer for dcuentation

The more money we raise, the more we can expand. Weekend or two weekends. 

Advertise online, websites, blogs, facebook, local newspapers, try to get into magazines and local radio and TV stations. It grows word of mouth. 

Audience 200 people. Family type atmosphere. People know each other. Friends and family. Family flies up from Florida every year to volunteer. Sister and niece sell candy. Our mom is our chief critic but she loves it.

Office manager of the SCS. 

Last year they had a fundraiser at Claret Winebar, where they played games related to movies. Prizes from stores in neighborhood

Great experience not only for us but for everyone in Sunnyside

Moved to Sunnyside in 1975, Neighbors are true neighbors. Theyc are about you. They feed your cat when yu’re going away.

On the phone people think I’m taller. And I’m only 5’2. For some reason people think I appear or sound taller on the phone. People are surprised to find out I’m so little. 

Found Betty on the street in Sunnyside Gardens 11 years ago. She sat in an inkwell. “She’s my longest relationship.” Never liked cats. Betty on street wanted her tummy rubbed. Took her 20 minutes to get her into a carrier
