Queens Memory Project Oral History Interview Timecode Outline  City:     Jackson Heights Neighborhood:    Date of Interview:   December 5, 2017  Time Period:    1958 - 2017 Interviewee Date of Birth:  11/27/1958 Name of interviewee:   Gary Paul Gilbert Name of Interviewer:   Fran Kipnis Length of Interview:   1 hour, 17 minutes, 08 seconds Name of Editor: Editing software:    Timecode Outline Preparer:  Fran Kipnis  Summary:    Gary Paul Gilbert was born in 1958 in Lewiston, Maine. In 1990, he and his husband, Murdoch (married in 2005), moved to 8809 35th Avenue, in Jackson Heights. Gary still lives in the same building. Murdoch died in August 2017. Gary is a political activist, playing major roles in the Queens Pride Parade, the Lesbian and Gay Democratic Club of Queens, the JFK Democratic Club, the Democratic Party of Queens County, and the Empire State Pride Agenda, where he and Murdoch fought for marriage equality.  He currently works for NYS Assembly member Michael DenDekker. In the age of Trump, Gary thinks Queens has to show it is different from the rest of country.  It is multi-cultural and people can work together. Diversity is a strength in Jackson Heights and gays are now part of the community.      00:00:26  Gary was born on 11/27/1958, in Lewiston Maine.  00:00:50 Gary met his husband, Murdoch (John Murdoch Matthew), in Bloomington Indiana.  They moved to Jersey City in 1986 and lived there for four years.  They moved to Jackson Heights, Queens, in 1990. They felt welcome in Queens from the start.  00:01:16 One could live in Jersey City for 30 years and always feel like an outsider. But in Jackson Heights, you could come from anywhere.  The assumption was that you come from somewhere else and there were other people here like you.  00:01:55 In 1990, Gary and Murdoch settled in the same building Gary lives in now (8809 35th Avenue, Jackson Heights, 11372). Jackson Heights was much less expensive then because it still had the reputation as the cocaine capital of North America. This is because of the two airports in Queens.  The neighborhood was still under a cloud.  It was coming back, beginning to gentrify, but not an ideal place to live for some people. Originally, the couple looked for an apartment in Brooklyn, but it was too expensive. Some friends recommended Queens. They found an apartment with a Russian, Jewish landlord. The landlord said he was Jewish in Russia and Russian in America, always an outsider.  00:02:58 When Gary and Murdoch moved to Jackson Heights, the neighborhood had a lot of pastry shops. You could eat well here. There were a lot of good, inexpensive restaurants. When Gary’s parents visited, they said the neighborhood was like Europe – you don’t hear English a lot. You could speak any language and get by.  Gary’s Mother has a French-Canadian accent and, in Queens, she did not stick out.  00:03:29 Gary came to NY to attend New York University as a graduate student, in French literature. He taught at NYU as a graduate instructor.  He now works for New York State Assemblymember Michael DenDekker. He works on constituent problems, meeting with the police, and different groups.  DenDekker grew up in his East Elmhurst district. He has roots in the neighborhood. (We talked about Gary’s job in more detail later in the interview.)  00:04:27 The neighborhood is becoming more expensive. Some of the shops that he and Murdoch used to like are gone.  Gary likes to do business with small businesses – going to places that know him. There was an independent pharmacy, Maram Pharmacy. The owner, John Kranjac, and his wife, Adriana, were really sweet to Gary and Murdoch. The owners had to let the business go because of competition from chain stores. There is a homogenization of the neighborhood that Gary does not like. Jackson Heights now has a Starbucks.  00:05:27 Gary is seeing more people from Brooklyn - young professionals – moving into the neighborhood. Jackson Heights used to be mostly Latino. Somebody overheard someone say in a café, “This was a nice neighborhood before the white people moved in”.  00:06:05 In the 1990’s, when they first moved in, Gary and Murdoch met Howard Cruse, the graphic and comic artist, and his partner (husband now) Ed Sedarbaum. Howard and Ed now live in Massachusetts. Murdoch was interested in cartoons and art and he discovered that Howard lived next door, so they met Howard and Ed.  They introduced Gary and Murdoch to the political scene in Queens.  When there was a Democratic Party Primary, and Gary and Murdoch did not know who to vote for, they would call Ed and Howard. Ed founded QGLU (Queens Gays and Lesbians United). It was the beginning of gay activism here.  00:06:57 In Jackson Heights, at the time, people were not out of the closet to their neighbors.  There were bars on Roosevelt Ave. However, because transportation was so good, people would go into Manhattan and not be gay here.  00:07:19 The bars at the time – Club Evolution is still here. Magic Touch is still here (was known as the Tragic Touch in the 1990’s). The bars were in decline when Gary came here, as the culture was disappearing and gentrification had already started.  00:07:44 Then Gary and Murdoch met Daniel Dromm, who is now a NYC Council member. Danny started the Queens Pride March, after the Julio Rivera murder. Gary remembers going to Borough Hall when Claire Shulman, Queens Borough President at the time, was making a statement about the murder. A lot of LGBT activists were there to show that the community was interested in doing something about the murder.  Gary and Murdoch were following Danny, but were not really politically involved.  00:08:29 Gary and Murdoch became politically involved when they met Brendan Fay, another gay activist. They had been together 22 years, and Brendan asked them if they wanted to go to Canada to get married. Brendan was taking same-sex couples to Toronto to get married. Brendan knew a gay judge in Toronto who was marrying people for free.    00:09:15 In 2005, Gary wanted to get married in Montreal – it sounded much more fun. If you marry in Montreal, there is a 21-day waiting period. If you are coming from abroad, you can file from a distance, and then come to Montreal 21 days later and get married. That is what Gary and Murdoch did.  It is a French custom.  It was fun, because Gary’s family is from Quebec way back, and France before then. They were following French customs.   00:10:20 Julio Rivera’s murder was a wake-up call. Gary cannot recall if he was at the first Queens Pride March, but he attended the marches early on. They were following Danny Dromm, Howard Cruse and Ed Sedarbaum - doing what they were telling Gary and Murdoch needed to be done. There was a fear that that there would be violence. People were afraid this could ruin things for the gay community in Queens – even just coming out and marching. Activists came from Manhattan to march. But there were no problems.    00:11:19 As a result of the Queens Pride March, people began to realize that there was a high percentage of gay people in Queens. People in Queens knew about gay people, but they did not talk about it.  Queens at the time was still a closet.  00:11:50 Queens was still the outer borough. Gay people had to be quiet so they didn’t ruin it for anyone. Manhattan was more organized. Now, Queens is more multi-cultural. It is the ‘poster borough’ for the LGBT movement. There is a strong political movement here. Gary was the secretary for Queens Pride, stepping down four years ago. Now it has become ‘ho hum’ to put on the parade. You have to deal with the issue of justifying why the gay community is still doing this.  Then you find instances of discrimination and realize it is still needed.  00:13:18 In the age of Trump, Gary thinks Queens has to show it is different from the rest of country.  It is multi-cultural and people can work together. Diversity is a strength here. In Jackson Heights, gays are part of the community.  But just in this part of Queens, this is not the case in other parts.  Gay organizations are headquartered in Jackson Heights. They could be in Forest Hills or Astoria. These are areas that seem safe, but there are other areas where a lot more work still needs to be done, like Howard Beach.   00:14: 09 The Lesbian and Gay Democratic Club of Queens (LGDCQ) is discussing the issue of working outwards in Queens, supporting groups like Out Rockaway. The LGDCQ follows Harvey Milk.  If you want rights, you have to come out of the closet and tell people who you are. You can’t demand rights if nobody knows you exist. That is what Danny Dromm was following. It is the same issue in these neighborhoods.  Also, the LGDQC has to deal with the reality of going into neighborhoods with large populations of people of color, as white activists.  It is necessary that people within the neighborhoods organize their own people. The LGDQC could still help.   00:15:19 As an example, the LGDQC helped Council Member Daneek Miller.  When Miller was running for City Council for the first time, Danny and Gary and a bunch of people went to Jamaica to collect signatures for him.  Years later, Council Member Miller said the LGDCQ was the catalyst that got him started. That first week of campaigning he had doubts, then Danny Dromm came in, they all came in, and showed the campaign how to do things.  They shared their skills.  00: 16:22:00  Since the marriage equality ruling in the Supreme Court, in 2015, Gary’s politics have become mainstream, working within the Democratic Party. He doesn’t necessarily see himself as doing gay activism, which is a shift. This is similar to how women’s and black studies have evolved, from looking at a particular group to studying something broader.  For example, straight white men--contrary to the cultural assumption their identities need no study--also have sexual orientation, race, and gender. One can study the social construction of the straight white male. Queer studies are not just about LGBTs, race studies are not just about people of color, and gender studies are not just about women. Identity politics can be divisive if identities are solidified but productive if all identities are interrogated.   00:18:39 Gary is a member of different political organizations, including the Democratic Party of Queens County. The Lesbian and Gay Democratic Club of Queens started in a manner similar to QGLU – it was about gay issues.  Danny Dromm tells the history that once the LGDCQ decided to start endorsing candidates in Queens, politicians came in and wanted your vote.  Part of the agreement was the LGDCQ would go out and campaign. The LGDCQ was organizing Queens. It was a big responsibility. Most of the Clubs in Queens are tied to a specific district and members are only responsible for gathering signatures to qualify for the ballot for that area. What is exciting about the LGDCQ, for example, is Melinda Katz showing up before running for Borough President. Politicians from all over Queens came to the LGDCQ. Tony Avella came. Politicians would show up and LGDCQ members would get more of a feel for politics in Queens than members of regular democratic clubs. When the LGDCQ endorses someone, members have to be out there, knocking on doors, showing that the endorsement means something. These politicians are then good on gay issues. For example, the LGDCQ endorsed and worked for Elizabeth Crowley – she lost, but is very liberal. The LGDCQ also shows people that the LGBT community cares about other issues. Gay issues are more than sexual orientation - gay issues are about the criminal justice system, for example. When the politicians show up, Gary asks questions that are not always related to gay issues.    00:21:07 The Democratic Party of Queens County, under Congressman Crowley, has been receptive to LGBT people. It is one of the most organized Democratic Parties in the country. In Queens, there are not a lot of primaries. People agree on who will run to represent the party. People who are loyal will be rewarded. The Party is very nice to gay people - what matters is that you do a lot of work. If you do a lot of work, you will be rewarded. Congressman Crowley helped get marriage equality in 2011 in New York State. During the previous vote, there were five senators from Queens who voted against marriage equality. Congressman Crowley called a major press conference with all the elected Democrats at Borough Hall to pledge support for marriage equality. State senators who would not evolve on this issue were replaced at the ballot box, retired, or resigned. Queens has moved very fast.    00:23:48 Helen Marshall was the first Queens Borough President to invite LGBT people to an annual get together at Borough Hall. Claire Shulman, the previous President, had been quietly supportive. She never came to a Pride Parade. Helen Marshall was a Parade Marshall in the 2000’s. Helen Marshall presented Gary and Murdoch with a Borough Hall award in 2008 for their work on marriage equality.   00:24:48 Gary and Murdoch volunteered to promote marriage equality through the Empire State Pride Agenda, the biggest LGBT organization in NYS at the time. They lobbied Albany and local elected officials. They learned how to speak to elected officials, how to do the ‘soft sell’, they learned about advocacy.  They learned how to sound positive and how to be polite.  Some marriage activists were very negative, not as polished, and wanted to have a protest at the drop of a hat.  That might not have been helpful, as those actions solidify positions. They did this work for four or five years.  00:26:02 Gary was a marriage ambassador. He received an award for this. As an ambassador, he worked in the community to educate people, tell them about his life and how the inability to marry has impacted him. He talked with people who might be supportive, such as neighbors, friends, members of churches, synagogues, and journalists.   00:27:00 Gary remembered doing interviews with the press about why marriage equality matters. There are at least 1,300 state laws dependent on marriage status at the state level in New York and at least 1,100 at the federal level. If a gay person was not married, they could forget these rights.  00:27:48 The Empire State Pride Agenda had a booklet on all the marriage rights and how domestic partnerships and civil unions did not provide the same number of rights and protections.  The community waited for NJ to experience that.  The NJ Supreme Court punted. They said same-sex   couples deserve all the same rights, but the legislature could do this either through marriage or civil unions. So, they legislated a civil union, entered into exactly the same way as a marriage. But they found out it was not the same thing. Many employers and businesses did not understand it and these arrangements were not recognized by the federal government.    00:29:28 Gary was ambivalent about settling for domestic partnership at the time. It would have been helpful for older people and those who needed certain rights and benefits. But other people said not to do that – you would be giving up a lot of rights. NYS dragged its feet on marriage rights.  Hiram Monserrate, a NYS Senator, pledged to vote for marriage equality and then voted against it, so the community had to unseat him.    00:30:16 Assemblymember DenDekker at the time (Gary was not yet working for him) would not complete a written questionnaire to get the LGDCQ’s endorsement. He was adamant that he didn’t want to put anything in writing, but would speak with anyone who wanted to know his positions.  He did this because of the experience of Assemblymember Ivan Lafayette. He had said he did not support domestic partnership, but it was because if there was the same level of commitment, a couple should be married!  This was before lot of gay activists were even fighting for domestic partnerships.  What the LGDCQ learned was that a politician who is open to you and has not written anything down, might be a more solid ally than one who writes things down, but lies to you.  00:31:47 Assembly member DenDekker’s daughter is a lesbian. She is married to a woman. Gary remembers how he got DenDekker to vote for marriage equality. He asked, ‘Why should same-sex couples have to go to Canada to get married? When we come back to NYS, these marriages are recognized.” When DenDekker was in the Assembly, he got a few votes that way. DenDekker said NYS already has marriage equality!   00:32:37 NYS was losing money. Scott Stringer (NYC Comptroller) said he would not marry his wife in NYS until all couples, regardless of sex, could get married. He married in Connecticut and had the reception in New York.  00:33:11 Gary mentioned the importance of educating people and learning how to do sound bites for journalists. If you are at a march, and a journalist comes up to you, you need to be ready to respond, you need a sentence.  At one event, a Mexican journalist interviewed Gary about marriage rights and they wrote about this in a Mexican newspaper.  00:34:12 Gary was also involved with the Funeral Consumer Alliance of Long Island and New York City. He was president for two years. The Alliance educates consumers about their rights and options. Whereas consumers today buy a lot of products online, only one in four funeral homes list their prices online.  Gary got involved when he married Murdoch and they got their domestic partnership from California.  He realized this was something they needed to think about. This affiliate advocated in the NYS Assembly and Senate, and they did not have a lot of people who knew how to lobby. Gary was experienced at lobbying and got involved.  After he started working for the Assemblymember, he could not do the lobbying anymore. It’s about educating people.  00:35:58 Gary is a member of the Saint Mark’s Episcopal Church in Queens (in Jackson Heights). There is a lot of music there and it has become more liberal over the years. It is not as liberal as the United Church of Christ in Manhattan, where Gary went for many years (Riverside Church). When NYS legalized marriage equality, the new bishop of the Episcopal Diocese of Long Island, Larry Provenzano, demanded that his clergy, who were living with same-sex partners, eventually get married. He said the same standards should apply to all clergy, regardless of gender. But this was a problem, because the U.S. did not have marriage equality everywhere. But Gary thought this was a nice story because there were a lot of traditions that prohibited any sort of marriage or recognition. Gary then talked about some other experiences at the Riverside Church.  00:38:59 The Congregation at St. Mark’s is Latino and gay and being gay is not an issue.  The Church offers mostly services and music and they support a food pantry.  It is a small struggling congregation. Under the current priest, Antonio Checo, they have managed to dig their way out of a mess. Ten years ago, the Bishop was thinking of closing the church because there were not many Episcopalians left in the area. But now, they get an overflow from the Roman tradition. These people are gay or, for some reason, not getting along with their tradition. At St. Mark’s, they won’t try to convert you, but they will invite you in.   00:43:27 Danny Dromm got Gary and Murdoch involved in politics. After Gary and Murdoch married, Danny wanted to give them a wedding gift. They said a gift was not important, but they did want to be involved in politics. They wanted to fight for their rights. Gary reflected that it is odd to think of your life as a political issue. It is something he still has not forgiven the US for. He and Murdoch were together for 34 years, and it was only in the last two years that the federal government recognized their relationship and they were able to file a joint income tax as married.  In NYS, they were only recognized in 2011 and had to wait till the federal government recognized them as married in order to file their state income tax as married.  Gary thought about the fact that after Murdoch died, for most of their relationship, they did not exist for the government. He has ambivalent feeling toward America these days, especially after Trump. There is not this level of ugliness, violence, speech, in Canada (with the possible exception of Alberta).  00:45:20 Gay political organizations have to maintain what the LGBT community has already won. Assemblymember DenDekker says that NYS has to keep doing what it has always done. NYS will not back track on issues because of pressure by the federal government. The rights of immigrants are very important.  Gary reflected on the 14th Amendment which recognizes us as persons and citizens.  The South African constitution tries to continually improve and correct errors to its Constitution. This is better than in the US, where people do not see the Constitution as a living document. A constitutional amendment is an ‘oops’. The amendment calls into question the authority of the main text.  00:47:23 Danny Dromm is very establishment now. He is progressive and works with the Democratic Party of Queens County, but can have a conflictual relationship with them sometimes. Four years ago, Danny, Jimmy Van Bramer, and Julissa Ferreras worked with Mayor De Blasio to elect Melissa Mark Viverito as Speaker of the City Council. He broke with the party to do so. Danny Dromm has an ambivalence. He first ran against Helen Sears, who was supported by the Democratic Party of Queens County, which usually backs the incumbent.  That was when Bloomberg extended term limits. Danny was being told he should not run for office (2009), but he continued to do so.   00:48:52  When Danny was collecting signatures on his petitions, he had people do one signature per sheet, so if anything was wrong with a signature, the County Democrats could not throw out a whole page, he would only lose one name. He had a brilliant election lawyer. He is spending a lot of money for lawyers for his petitions, but he knows how to do it now. Gary thinks there is a trace of resentment for the days when Queens County was not as pro-LGBT as it is today. Gary is totally establishment now. He will do what Congressman Joe Crowley says.  00:50:10: The LGBT community needs to maintain what rights it has and fight for immigrant rights. Gays need to fight for the people living here without papers. Gary sees this as an equal protection issue. Gary is involved in many issues, and gay activists ask him why is he doing this. But Gary does not see these issues as opposed. Equal protection means all people should be protected. If someone else is not being protected, then his rights are at risk.   00:50:51 Gary talked about his participation in the Prison Ministry, an advocacy group at the Riverside Church.  He discussed issues related to recidivism.   00:51:56 Gary talked about the prison system being a continuation of slavery. Companies use prison labor to produce products.  Gary is from Maine, where prisoners have the right to vote.  He thinks this is because Maine was 80% white, so people see prisoners as like them. But this is not true in NY, where prisoners are usually people of color. This is similar to the opioid crisis. It is now considered a medical problem, but that should have happened 40 years ago, when it was seen as a problem for people of color and poor people. It was criminalized. People and families were punished and sent to prisons upstate. A wife or mother had to travel upstate. Phone companies charged high rates, profiting on the prisoners.  The prison system is still living out the legacy of the Civil War.  00:54:19 Gary’s hope for Queens is a more multi-cultural society. When he came back from Haiti, where he went with the Organization of American States to observe elections, and arrived at JFK Airport, he noticed everything at the airport was in English. And JFK is an international airport. In the Montreal Airport, there are signs in different languages and universal signs.  The assumption here is everyone speaks English, which seems so provincial.  There is a potential in Queens, which is so multi-cultural, to be more like Montreal.  00:56:09 Brendan Fay had an impact on Gary. They have different temperaments. Brendan was dealing with a lesbian couple and one died. They had trouble arranging the burial with a funeral home in Astoria (a chain based in Houston). Brendan called Gary as he knew Gary was involved with the Funeral Consumers Alliance. Brendan wanted to start a demonstration, but Gary said let’s talk this through. He called the funeral home. Gary had a good conversation with the people there. Brendan joked that Gary ruined his demonstration. Gary found the couple a less expensive funeral home.  Brendan now recommends that place to his friends. Brendan can organize a demonstration in two hours!   00:58:52 Sebastian McGuire has had an impact on Gary. He is a lawyer for Danny Dromm. He and Gary worked well together. They lobbied in Albany together. Gary was polite (Doris Day type of advocate) and Sebastian was more direct. It was a good balance.  00:59:35 The gay community decided it had to un-elect Senator George Onorato, a Queens State Senator. He said he did not support marriage equality because of religion.  But Gary told him marriage was a civil institution and Onorato said he would support it. But in the end, he did not support marriage equality. Onorato stepped down. Gary thinks if he had more time, he might have been able to change Onorato’s mind.   1:01:41 Marriage Equality NY went to Onorato’s office once and had cameras with them, and were very ‘in your face’.  Gary thought that was a mistake. Another time, Marriage Equality NY organized a rally at a park in Astoria. Eight hundred people showed up to rally against Onorato. At the time, the Empire State Pride Agenda, which works inside the system, was not sure that was a good idea.  But the Democrat Party of Queens County saw this and decided it was time for Onorato to go.  He had been a state Senator for over 30 years. Gary reflected that different types of activism help each other. You have to think through the best thing to do.  01:03:29  Gary talked about livery cab drivers who came to the Queens office of Francisco Moya. Moya’s chief of staff told them they could have scheduled an appointment.   They did not know this and with the press there, the rally looked like a declaration of war, not a negotiation. That is not always the right tactic.  01:04:40 Gary works on constituent issues. A lot of the job is getting different City agencies to work together. He attends Cabinet Meetings of Community Board 3. Giovanna Reid is the district manager. For example, if the Department of Transportation has to work with Con Ed, the problem could get lost between the two agencies. Gary will sit down with the agencies and say you all have to solve this problem. His job is to take the information from a constituent, write up the problem, and contact the agency. He encourages constituents to make a 311 complaint. Once there is a 311-tracking number, Gary’s job is to keep track of the problem. He can look it up on computer, or call the agency. People could do that for themselves, but generally, they will lose patience.  01:06:43 Years ago, when Gary and Murdoch first moved to Queens, there were a bunch of branches on the sidewalk that were never removed. They phoned Assemblymember Ivan Lafayette’s office, and in three days it was gone. This was before the 311 system which Bloomberg implemented.  Before then, this sort of problem could be caught between the Department of Transportation (DOT) and the Department of Environmental Protection (DEP).  311 does not always work.  You still need to contact each agency.  Queens now has neighborhood coordinating officers (NCO). The police precincts are divided into four sectors. There are two officers for each sector. When there is a problem, you contact that officer. The job of the NCO is to specialize, really get to know the person, not just respond to calls. Gary’s office can talk to the NCO. This is a return to community policing.  (Gary then told a story about a complaint about cars parked in front of a driveway.)  01:09:50 Assemblymember DenDekker has a bill to make the City responsible for the maintenance of sidewalks. The Department of Parks plants trees, but if the roots are not planted deeply enough, the roots break the sidewalks and the homeowners are penalized.  01:10:55 Gary knows the pulse of the neighborhood at the micro level. Gary called the Department of Transportation to follow up on a pot hole complaint but was told he had to start over because it was a ‘cave in’.  Gary would have to put in another online complaint about the cave in. Gary reflected that people get frustrated with government and they give up. People have to learn how to navigate the system. Often people don’t understand the differences between city, state, and federal problems. They get frustrated because they are complaining at the wrong level.  01:13:05 Gary received a Community Service Award from the 115th Precinct Community Council on 10/21/17. He walked away with citations from Congressman Crowley; State Senator José Peralta; his boss, Assemblymember DenDekker; Assemblymember Moya; and Council Member Ferreras. Danny Dromm said Gary was the first openly gay person to get this award.  In typically Queens fashion, Gary asked Janice Scurry, president of the Council, if it was true that he was the first out gay honoree. She thought a while and said, yes, it is, but we really did not think about it.  Gary asked if that is good. He responded yes, but some education still needs to happen. It is still significant that a gay person can get this type of award.   01:15:43 Gary’s friend from Greenwich Connecticut came to the event and took a lot of photos. The friend said that he had never seen as much diversity as was in the room. People were from all backgrounds, classes, races, and sexual orientations. Gary remarked that is Queens. We take that for granted.             