Queens Memory Project Oral History Interview Timecode City:    Queens, New York Neighborhood (if any): Jamaica, Queens Date of interview:  July 13th 2017 Time period:   1950 – 2010’s Interviewee date of birth: 1943 Name of interviewee:  Raleigh ‘Curly’ Hall Name of interviewer:  Barbara DeYoung-Ezell Length of interview:  01:29:47 Name of editor:  Sonali Sugrim Editing software:  Adobe Soundbooth Timecode Outline preparer: Amirun Kaber  00:05:45 He has a son named Curly S. Hall. He lives in Baisley Park, Queens, right across August Martin High School, which was once Woodrow Wilson High School. They moved into this neighborhood in 1957. Before this he used to live in the “forty projects".  He was born in 1943 in the Jamaica Houses, which is now called the “forty projects.” His mother was from Richmond, Virginia. She eventually they moved her family to the Bronx. Her name was Alice Homes.  His mother had a lot of relatives who pooled their money and purchased a house on 160th Street.   00:08:09 His grandmother used to do housekeeping in Richmond Hill. When Curly’s mother came of age she followed her mother’s path and also began to work in housekeeping.  His mother was only payed a $1.50 a month. This made it hard for her to even get a phone because a phone would cost $1.25. His father was from Aiken, South Carolina but he was born in Jamaica, Queens on 111th avenue, and 156th street, next to Bethany Baptist Church. His grandmother moved from South Carolina to New York in hopes to build a better life for herself and her husband who was Sounen Hall. Eventually she remarried and became an advocate of Bethany Baptist church.  Soon the church was rebuilt; everyone was familiar with Curly’s grandmother. Every Sunday she used to make large pots of food and put it on the church table, and everyone would come and eat. 00:10:44 His father used to iron furs, just like his mother. He worked in a big factory in Brooklyn.  Eventually he started selling fur, and during that time he met people from all over.  He started selling coats and pillbox hats. His father died at age fifty-five due to cancer. His death was caused by the buildup of toxic chemicals that he used as a furrier. 00:12:20 When Curly was a young boy (6 – 10 years old) and his father used to store the fur coats belonging to the neighborhood ladies for the summer. They charged the ladies five dollars storing their fur coats over the season. When summer ended they delivered fur coats back to their owners. Curly and his father collected empty bottles for recycling and collected two cents for each bottle.  Curly and his father did a variety of odd jobs including delivering cigarettes to women. Curly and his father also collected, stored in their house, and sold old newspapers in bulk to the paper factory. Curly had a brother who passed away at twenty-one; before he died he taught Curly how to drum. His uncle George used to play the Bugle corps, he taught his brother how to play and his brother taught him. 00:16:50 He used to do drumming in Barneys Johnson’s dance studio, for the dance classes.  He used to go there Wednesday night, every Saturday morning every Thursday morning and this lead to him becoming a really skilled drummer, and eventually he became a professional drummer, he played conga drums, African Batas, and other “drums of nature.” 00:18:58 Once, when he was 16 he and his friends were sitting in the beach, drumming, and a man named bob white; who was a Jewish orchestra leader, came to him and told him to play certain stuff, so he did and he was really good. . Every weekend he did gigs with different orchestra leaders. Drumming was a huge part of his life when he was young. 00:19:49 He and his upstairs neighbor Milford Grey, who was a year older then him, formed a Latin jazz group, they played at many events. They played a lot at Audubon ballroom, and got very popular.  He played in the orchestra of white bock, a Broadway performance.  00:23:04 One night at new year’s eve his wife was sitting on the table and he was on the orchestra, and he decided he didn’t want to do this anymore, he started this due to this love for drums, and now he wasn’t having fun anymore so he decided to reduce the amount of gigs he did. He and his wife went into the post office which cutout his musical carrier because he had to work nights on weekends. 00:24:54 He went to IBM school, after that he got a job at AT&T as a key puncher soon they switched him over to their IBM department. Before he started working at the AT&T he went for an interview where he was told to come back when he had more experience.  So he started working for this insurance company at the evening and the AT&T at the day time. The insurance company liked his performance and asked him to start working there at the day time and made a lot of big promises. So he quit working for the AT&T Company and started working there, after three weeks of working there they fired him for the daytime because they needed more experienced people and added two other people.  00:27:30 He had a lot of free time so he started painting his mother’s  house and his friend Larry Fouse came to him and asked him to start painting with him and his father Teddy Right. So he started working there, he painted houses and apartments, etc. Painting stores started recommending him and he started painting houses  here and there, where he ran into Mr. Hoka who had a general contracting business who did more than painting, he did general carpentry, etc. they worked really hard together, and eventually they started working as partners. Hoka agreed to give him 10% of whatever he made.  When it got slow they both used to get small jobs. When it was time for Mr. Hoka to give him his 10%, he refused.  At this point he didn’t get mad, but he understood how money can change people. 00:31:08 After this incident he headed out on his own, he called his friends to help him. He became a carpenter. He started with small jobs and progressed.  He went to many classes including business class.  He got involved in many organizations trying to understand business, and like this each job got bigger and bigger. The reason to his success was that he wouldn’t take to many jobs he would focus on one job. Soon they got a contract with r and s Strauss stores.  He named his company RW hall general contractors ink.  One night he went to a party and one of his friends (Aal Woods) from queens was there.  He also worked in that store in the car department, he was a car manager. Aal Woods used to open stores, etc. He asked him if he wanted to join him in remodeling stores.  So Aal called him and that was the beginning of a new carrier. He started building R and S Strauss stores all over. Everyone loved his work.  Aal eventually became the CEO.  00:34:28 As business grew he did a project for “The ten year plan Koch Ed,” the company had 47 buildings to do, and he was told to bid on 16 of them. Later he got a call asking him not to bid on this project, but he did it anyway.  He won 7 of the building. The union called him a threat because he wasn’t a union. Soon he was given a contract, and called in for an office meeting. Where everyone was pretty harsh, so he read the contract, at the end he didn’t sign the contract.  Shortly after he got another contract, and that was pretty good but the last two pages said he could never work in New York City without their permission again, and for him to remove all her current workers etc. he declined that too, due to their condition. Eventually his company progressed a lot, and the wages prevailed too.  00:40:23 At this point he needed to get 450,000 dollar. He went to freedom national bank in Harlem and after a little while they agreed to give the money. He was told to come and collect the money in Monday, when he went to collect the check, the bank closed down, and he couldn’t get the check. After this he went to UDC and got a loan. 00:49:08 He had his first son when he started his contracting business. They wanted to buy a house so they saved as much money as he could, they barely spent anything. They bought a house eventually.  Then he had two daughters.  He was a part of the UNCA, where he became the vice president.  He and his wife eventually made a dance group, the group performed in various places. His son was a drummer and his daughters were dancers.  00:54:04 He loved horses from a young age. When he was 9 years old his family took him to “Linn’s Riding Academy,” and he rode a horse. When he was 12 he used to go “shoe shining,” so he could earn money. Every weekend he and his friends went horse riding, and they did horse riding for a year.  So he sent his kids to horseback riding camp. One of his friends called him and he went and he became a part of the horsemen.  He also became an instructor for the Boy Scout. He had 54 horses and 6 died over 6 months, one died of old age another was hung up on a door and he broke his neck, and one the doctor had to kill due to pox, and another one hurt his leg and it was broken for two years eventually the doctor said he wouldn’t get better, so the doctor and to kill him. Another got hit by a car. 01:08:32 Over the years he learnt to communicate with the horses’ pretty well. 01:11:56 uncle Binn is one of the oldest cowboys in the group, who passed away 3 years ago. He won the world championship “rodeo bull riding championship”. Uncle Binn lived for a long time he lived for a 100 years. (He starts showing pictures from his cowboy life and explaining it.)  