Queens Memory Project
Oral History Interview Timecode Outline

City:					Forest Hills
Date of Interview:			October 7, 2017
Time Period:				1990 - 2013
Interviewee Date of Birth:		November 4, 1985
Name of interviewee:			Nicholas Hirshon
Name of interviewer:			Alice Ostrowsky
Length of interview:			41 minutes, 5 seconds
Name of Editor:			
Editing Software: 			Adobe Soundbooth
Timecode Outline Preparer:		Alice Ostrowsky 

Summary: Nicholas (Nick) Hirshon was born in Forest Hills and lived there until the summer of 2013, when he moved to start a Ph.D. program in mass communication at Ohio University. He remains very connected to the area, frequently visiting his father Elliot, who lives in the home where Nick was raised.  In this interview, Nick describes his area as “about the best you could have,” providing the best of city living without the challenges of Manhattan. He describes neighborhood attractions and architecture.  Nick is himself a historian with a rich knowledge of Queens (he wrote the 2013 book “Images of America: Forest Hills”) and the interview is enriched as he shares this in the context of his memories. He describes the emotional experience of attending the first professional sports event in New York City after the 9/11 attack on the World Trade Center. He also relates a dramatic story of robbers entering his home and threatening Nick and his father at gunpoint. Despite this, his Forest Hills home remains the place to which he hopes to return to live.

38:00	Nick explains that he is a historian who trained to conduct oral histories in his Ph.D. program.  He has conducted many interviews and now hopes to “give back” by sharing his own memories for other historians.
1:20	Describes his childhood home at 96-08 72nd Road in [Forest Hills] , between Metropolitan Avenue and Union Turnpike, adjacent to Forest Park.
1:35*	Neighborhood description -  Forest Park had a bridle path and stables were located nearby.
2:00	The area reflected a suburban style of single-family homes. He describes it as a “nice way of living in New York City … without having to contend with the challenges of New York City.”
2:24	Family traveled to Manhattan for museums and Broadway shows, “but for the most part I was a Queens kid” (2:43). Traditional Queens experiences included attending Mets games and visiting the Hall of Science and Queens Museum in Flushing Meadows Corona Park. Visited his grandmother Mary Jedrlinic in Flushing.
3:06	Enjoyed local entertainment such as the Cinemart movie theater and Eddie’s Sweet Shoppe.  “That was kinda my universe.”
3:20 	Describes visiting his grandmother at 154-11 Beech Avenue in Flushing. Her home was a very old house, constructed in the early 1900s. Large, single family.
4:10*	Very large home was occupied by his grandmother, aunt, and great-uncle. Describes more of the family. Grandmother moved to Queens from Harlem. Her husband (Nick’s maternal grandfather, Nicholas Jedrlinic) died before Nick’s birth.
4:54	When asked to compare his grandmother’s neighborhood to his own Nick states, “I always thought that where I grew up was about the best you could have.”  
5:16 	Peace and tranquility of a tree-lined street with lots to do and see within a few blocks. Cinema, shopping, restaurants.
5:37	Comments on the beauty of Forest Hills Gardens, an area that looks like Europe.
5:50	Easy access to Manhattan and Long Island. Traveled to North Merrick to visit his paternal grandparents, Elaine Hirshon and Irving Hirshon.
6:18	Provides detail about Forest Hills Gardens. Founded about 1906 as an experiment of a private community off the beaten path. Now known for multi-million dollar Tudor-style homes. Designed by the architect Grovesnor Atterbury and Frederick Law Olmstead Jr., who created much of the park space.
8:03 	Shares early memories of seeing the movie “The Land Before Time” on Continental Avenue in a theater that no longer exists. Street fairs on Austin Street.
8:23*	Describes a field trip to the Hall of Science and dissecting a cow’s eye. He calls this the “ultimate thing … a rite of passage” for children of Queens.
8:40	Nick had a birthday party at the Museum of the Moving Image in Astoria. Nick believes his parents were the first to have a party hosted there. Explains that the museum has changed since then.  In the late 80’s and early 90’s, it was still in early building stages. The museum provided kaleidescopes of images of iconic movie stars as party favors. (Interviewer note: The American Museum of the Moving Image opened to the public in 1988. It is now named the Museum of the Moving Image.)
9:41	Discusses his school experience.  Attended Tally-Ho nursery school off Sybilla Street. Dixie Dew stables was next door. (Interviewer Note: Dixie Dew Stables was in business for over 80 years before closing.) The building also had a “disco floor” that was used for adults at night. He remembers hearing that the neighborhood objected when the parties got “too rowdy.” During the day they would use the space for the children. Recalls the song “Hands Up, Baby Hands Up.”
10:35	Attended Our Lady of Mercy School on Kessel Street from first to eighth grade. Attended Boy scouts meetings and church there.
11:04	Other students were white but a few African-American and Asian students. Students were mostly upper-middle class economically, from families who could afford a private school. He explains that the school “didn’t have a lot of drama.” Remained with a stable group of classmates during all his school years, therefore not much change in demographics.
13:06*	Describes being confronted by armed robbers (disguised as UPS workers) while he was home with his father. Three men forced their way into the house and began removing valuables. This led to the family deciding to get a dog.
14:12	Family visited the North Shore Animal League on Long Island to adopt a dog. This was approximately 1997, when Nick was about 12years old. The family was interested in a dog named Bob (after the Good Samaritan who rescued him), who had been rescued after being injured when he ran into traffic. North Shore felt the dog was more suited to an older child. 
 15:20 But Bob (whom the Hirshon family renamed Spot) jumped on the bench to sit near Nick. Nick’s dad later described this as Spot choosing Nick. They “had a lot of fun together.”  
15:43* Nick shares a funny story of walking Spot for the first time outside his grandparents’ home at 2006 Brian Drive in North Merrick, and Spot tried to run into traffic. This was the moment when Nick understood that Spot had an “issue” with cars. With training, Spot became “respectful” of traffic.
16:21	Spot went to Mobile Vet on Metroplitan Avenue, a business that still exists in that location.  Spot loved going to the vet and always pulled them towards the shop door when they were walking on Metropolitan Avenue.
16:55	Spot attended the first “Dog’s Night at Shea Stadium” during a Mets game. Nick has submitted a photo of that event to the Queens Library.
17:11 Spot and the family participated in several Dogs Walks Against Cancer events including in Riverside Park and Farmingdale State College on Long Island.
17:34	Spot loved looking at the horses. Nick’s dad thought Spot was “confused” and thought they might have been big dogs.
18:05	Discussion of the impact of the home invasion on Nick. This changed his “personal” vision of safety. The neighborhood had always seemed extremely safe. Shattered this perception while still a kid. Very dramatic.
18:34	Robbers began to walk Nick and his father toward the basement. Nick’s father was concerned that they would be shot. When Nick’s father was able to open a side door and shout for help from the neighbors, one robber threatened to shoot Nick in the head.
19:16* 	Nick describes “one of the scariest moments of my life” – when the robber pointed a gun at his head and threatened to “kill the kid.” Robber ran out after making eye contact with Nick.  
20:07 Resulted in some caution when delivery men came to the door. “Changes your trust factor.”
20:40 	Don’t know why they came to their house. Police thought the robbers were likely looking for a “richer” house in Forest Hills Gardens and made a mistake. Nick’s mom also thought they were not the most skilled robbers as they did not take the most valuable items.
21:04  	Most of his experience in Forest Hills and Queens demonstrated that it was a safe place so this event did not lead to a permanent change in his feeling of safety in his community. But it did lead to a TV appearance….
21:28 	Nick and his mother viewed a TV spot for the Leeza Gibbons talk show seeking guests for an upcoming show on home invasions. Nick encouraged the family to apply. They were accepted and flown to California and Nick and his father appeared on the show.
22:30 	Describes getting a Mary Quaid scholarship from the Kiwanis Club of Richmond Hill and Woodhaven. It provided funds to be used for books when Nick was attending St. John’s University. Nick continues to receive invitations to an annual dinner (originally held at Le Cordon Bleu on Jamaica Avenue, since moved to other locations) where the new scholarship recipients are introduced. Likes the “sense of stability” it conveys and that it honors people in the community. When Nick was a reporter in Queens, he conducted an interview with the Rev. Skip L’Heureux, the president of the Kiwanis Club. Kiwanis had a reputation of “exclusionary” organization of white people of a certain economic status years ago, but by the time that Nick won the scholarship, it was more diverse and representative of the Richmond Hill community.
25:13	Former Masonic temple on Metropolitan Avenue. His grandfather Irving Hirshon, a musician who played the clarinet, played at a concert there.
25:34	In 2005, Nick became a reporter at the New York Daily News. Became more aware of community organizations and civic organizations. But was not involved as a child growing up.
26:25  Nick no longer lives in Queens. I asked him to reflect on Queens from this new perspective.
26:44	Much of Forest Hills has remained largely unchanged. Some businesses are gone, but the “character” of the neighborhood remains the same, with the same homes. Houses were not torn down and rebuilt as McMansions in the part of Forest Hills where he grew up. Parkland has not been built over. Forest Hills Gardens is covered by restrictive covenants and cannot be changed. Austin Street remains commercial but changes include an increase in banks. Likes the fact that there has been minimal change.
Describes this part of Metropolitan Avenue like the quintessential main street of any small town with a library, American legion hall, old-fashioned ice cream parlor, movie theater, post office, and bank, all the iconic things from a 1950s small town.
28:22	Explains that he would like to live in Queens again. Public transportation, can live without a car.  Culture: music, history museums, sports venues, safe, vibrant. Cultures of different countries. “An embarrassment of riches on Metropolitan Avenue.” Restaurants – Indian, Thai, Italian, Mediterranean.  Can eat from a different country every day of the month. Hopes to someday return to live in the home where he grew up.
30:30	Describes becoming a sports fan, specifically the Mets. Remembers starting to dislike that the Yankees always won.
31:00  	Upset that people from Queens were supporting the team from the Bronx when there was a local team to support and have pride in. Over a few months during the 1999 baseball season, he became well versed in baseball and specifically the Mets.
31:31   Went to his first game at Shea Stadium to watch the Mets play the Astros. (Interviewer’s note: Nick is referring to the first game he distinctly remembers attending on May 4, 1999, though his parents told him that he attended games earlier before he developed an interest in baseball.) He believes the tickets came through the cub scouts. The Mets lost but he enjoyed seeing the crowd and seeing world-famous athletes in his own backyard. 
32:32 Also became connected to hockey when the family traveled to Long Island from Queens and Nick became aware of the Nassau Coliseum. The Islanders were “underdogs” but Nick enjoyed rooting for them and seeing world-class athletes in a stadium near his hometown.
34:00	Describes one of the most memorable sports events he ever attended, the first professional sporting event held in New York City after September 11. Nick was a high school sophomore at Monsignor McClancy in East Elmhurst. He shares memories of being in school that day. He explains that he was called to the principal’s office at about 8:30 in the morning. He was given the message that his father called to let Nick know he was OK and was not working near the WTC that day. He describes learning about the events as “the rumor mill was churning” because students did not have access to cell phones at that time. Some of what sounded like “crazy rumors” turned out to be true. From their windows in East Elmhurst they were able to see the billowing smoke. Describes heated discussion in the locker room among the boys anxious to “join the army” and make the perpetrators “pay” for what they did.
37:00 *After that all sporting events were cancelled for a period of time. Nick had tickets to the first Mets game to be played after the WTC attacks.
On September 21, 2001, the Mets held their first game at Shea Stadium after Sept. 11. “Surreal” time to be there, with so much more going on than just the game. Mets were playing a good team, the Atlanta Braves. Rudy Giuliani threw out the first pitch and received an ”amazing ovation.” Diana Ross sang “God Bless America,” Mark Anthony sang the national anthem, and Liza Minelli sang “New York, New York.”  Nick was with a friend from high school and recalls that there was no talking for the first four or five innings, ”this pall over the ball park ... so much emotion in the pregame ceremony.” After all the initial emotion the game seemed almost anti-climactic.
39:05*  In the 5th or 6th inning the audience started to recover. The Mets’ Mike Piazza hit a very dramatic home run towards the end of the game and the Mets won. (Interviewer Note: Piazza’s home run came in the eighth inning.) There was a big emotional release.
People from other parts of the country remember this game. ”New York is triumphant again.” Nick explains that this is now what he likes so much about sports. It can mean so much to people in overcoming adversity and demonstrating community spirit.

	
