Leslie MacDermid 
PCOM 6000
Dr, Hirshon
November 20, 2018

Leslie: Are you ready to go? Go ahead and introduce yourself.
Jack: Okay my name is Jack Howard Potte. I'm 43 years old. I live in New York City and Manhattan. I was born and raised in Manhattan. I am 3rd Generation Native New Yorker. My grandfather was born in New York City my mother was born in New York City. I was born in New York City on January 2nd 1975. I have two kids Skyler and Linden and they are 4th generation native New Yorkers which, I must say I'm quite proud of.
Jack: I was born and raised on the Upper East Side. I grew up in the city. I went to school in the city. I started my investigation of the arts at a really early age. In high school I experimented with woodworking, plaster, ceramics, painting drawing. I knew very clearly when I was in high school that I wanted to be an artist of some kind. I just wasn't sure exactly what yet, and so some of the things I did in high school that really fueled that desire to be an artist was, I was doing a lot of large-scale paintings. I was doing some drawing. I spent quite a lot of time working with Ceramics and I made a whole series of ceramic. Goblets sort of in the vein of the. Holy Grail.
Jack: And so I knew that there was something about this process of working with my hands and making objects that attracted me and that I really wanted to pursue. I went to college in New York State up outside of Albany and Schenectady New York, so I'm sort of a New Yorker through and through. Regarding High School what high school did you go I went to boarding school in Connecticut it was calling conference school I went to school in New York City at a school on the up recycled Saint Bernard’s. Then I went to Union College in Schenectady New York and graduated with a degree in art history and sculpture, a BA in 1997. While I was in college I was still experimenting in the Arts and trying to figure out my medium, and so I worked again and wood and plaster and clay and you know painting and drawing and all different kinds of things. When I was a junior in college I was on the sculpture 3 class and I finally learned to weld, and there was a teacher who is on sabbatical and so there was an artist from New York City her name was Marcia Pals.  She came in to teach for a semester and she was teaching sculptures 3 and she taught us at a well and from the very first weld that I made in college I instantly knew that that was the material that I wanted to pursue.
Jack: The first weld I made is this so you know, was a mix of sort of technology in magic all at once. It’s a your taking a completely hard and movable material which is steel and in a split-second your liquefying it into molten metal and a connecting it together and there was something about that sort of instantaneous change in the form of the material that I was really drawn to and I knew right away I wanted to work in steel.
Leslie: Do you still have that first piece?
Jack: No when you are first learning, you are welding scraps together to really learn the process. I learn to weld as a junior and then I knew instantly that this was the material I wanted to pursue so I spent the rest of that year basically doing found object sculpture like going to a scrap yard in finding bits of steal from a scrap yard welding them together and making pieces that way. There was something about that that I really didn't like because each of the little objects that I was taking from the scrap yard had a little story to it.


Jack: You could tell it was a piece of an I-beam her that it was a cut off from something else in each piece. Each piece that I was using had its own sort of identity and I didn't really want that I wanted to make things that were really uniquely from me. I started using Links of Steel 20 feet long and you know I started with quarter inch round rods that are 20 feet long and I started cutting them and bending them and using those to make statues because they didn't have a story they didn't have an identity didn't really have anything that the viewer could infer from the material it was all about what I did with the material to create the work. So the next year is a senior I started very quickly making steel figures so in 1996 and 97.
Jack: That last year of college I made 16 life-size figurative of Steel sculptures.  Some of them had some found-object pieces still incorporated in them but for the most part they were all made out of this these long rods that I had cut and bent and put together. I was very interested in the human form and making sculpture of people because as I was studying in art history and some of the earliest forms that artist made representations of people. so I really wanted to sort of respect the tradition of art history in making figures and also sort of bring my own sense ability to it and so start of further and extend the history of making figures with my work. I had a show of the 16 figures my senior year sold about a third of them which was great/
Jack: I then you know graduated college just left school I realize that it was very important to gain a deeper understanding of the material so I actually went moved out to Colorado and I work for a blacksmith from Long Island
Leslie: Wow that’s pretty cool.
Jack: When I had moved to Colorado and I was making steel furniture with this blacksmith from Long Island in Colorado and I spent two years really learning how to weld you know from a production standpoint you know like producing Furniture in fact the chair you're sitting on was made during that time. and so I learn how to manipulate steel you know I learned grind steel, seal it from rusting and incredibly in-depth education in how the material reacts you know while it's in process. I still was reacting to the material in the same way that I was in that first well there's something about the fact that you could you know make mistakes you could cut something and steal and then reattach it. You know if you’re working with wood and cut something too short still sort of done and need a new piece of wood. Steel is sort of ultimately malleable and changeable and so you can add you can take a way you can add again you can take away again this is constant process of addition and subtraction happens when I'm making a sculpture that really I can only do when I'm working and steel and so I left that two years with this really deep strong understanding of working in steel I move back to New York City and actually moved into an apartment in Williamsburg so this was like 1999 in Williamsburg , and  it was still a very polish neighborhood there was still a kielbasa shop in the Polish Bakery and a polish grocery store. In a Polish people in the neighborhood and now I got a studio very very close to Long Island City in Queens actually on Commercial Street near Commercial Street in Williamsburg right over the water from Long Island City and there was always a sense that like Long Island City was very close by and even at that time A lot of people are saying well that's going to be the next place cuz already Williamsburg was starting to get build up there was restaurants in buildings and you know this was way in the beginning in 1999 but I had this knowledge now of the material and I had a studio and I was back at my home and I started making works in the started making figures . I started showing figures and sculptures at a gallery and I still felt like there was something missing in my work.
Jack: So I went to a place in the city which is 100 plus year old Arts institution called the art students league and I started learning, figure drawing, well not really learning figure drawing but really studying the human figures Anatomy at the art students league and so I would go there 5 days a week I did thousands of drawings over the course of probably about 2 or 3 years. I became the assistant to the professor very quickly and the professor was only there two days of the week so the other three days of the week the students are there drawing from a live model using the inspectors techniques and teachings and so you sort of becoming a surrogate teacher in a way where you know you're you become very familiar with what the instructors trying to teach people how to do it so people have been looking to you for advice and I mean I spent two and a half years doing thousands of drawings from a live model and learning the human anatomy learning how muscles move. How bones support how it all kind of comes together and that process was very important to me.
Jack: My work, because I really now had this intense understanding of the material and then got this intense understanding of the human anatomy and so it was time to kind of put those two things together. my wife got into law school so we moved up to Albany New York New York.
Leslie: And your wife’s name?
Jack: Her name is Erika.
Jack: And we moved to Albany New York and before I left the city I was working at the art students League I was teaching an after school program for kids at a high school I was doing work in my own studio and so between the art students league and after school program I was running. My own work was sort of third in line. When we moved to Albany, I made a commitment to myself and I quit all my jobs and I started only making figures.
Leslie: so this allowed you to solely focus on your work?
Jack: Yes, so I spent three years up in Albany making figures, life sized figures in steel that were really fully fleshed-out you know they were fully developed and I had to weld it in about 2 years at that point and I started making a series of very large figures and started showing them in public you know I got a show at the southern Vermont Arts Center which is in Manchester Vermont and I had never really considered the public Realm. But I got the show at the Sculpture Park and I put a bunch of work outside and I love that the barrier that the gallery sometimes creates unintentionally with people on the street was broken down. You know the scriptures were approachable by anybody they were out in nature are they looks great in the landscape and a lot of my sort of Idols in the art world had done public sculpture you know like Alexander Calder David Smith George Ricky and so you know they had made a lot of large outdoor public work and I thought, oh yeah it never really occurred to me that I could do that so I started doing a lot of large outdoor public sculpture.
Jack: My wife got her law degree and we move back to New York City in 2006 and at that point Williamsburg was totally developed you know there was it was very difficult to find a studio space there. So I remember back in 99 thinking about Long Island City and so I came to explore Long Island City in Queens. I was living on the Upper East Side the proximity to where I was living was very attractive to me because it was so close to the city but once you cross the bridge you were like a world away. You know it felt it was the city but it felt to remove from the city and so I got a studio on Borden Avenue in Long Island City it was a.
Jack: Okay looks it like it did pause. So I think basically, I know I came back to New York City and I was trying to find a studio space and Williamsburg was like way too expensive and way too developed and it really wasn't that attractive to me. I also got the sense that there was not a lot of artists left in York City.  I mean in Williamsburg at that point in 2006. So I looked into Long Island City and I came over to the neighborhood and I started walking around and I started talking to people and I talked to some of my friends who had Studios out here and I realized very quickly that there was this incredible sort of.
Jack: Quiet art scene in Long Island City and what I mean by quiet art scene in Long Island City was there was really this Core Group a very dedicated artist and professional artist who had studios here for working here who are committed to their work and to the neighborhood all at the same time and it wasn't sort of like a lot of artist you know sort of like. Feigning art artist, feigning Artistry you know that I can sort of like having a studio and kind of maybe doing some stuff and not really doing some stuff but like being a starving artist. The artist here was like committed working professional head careers and they had this great community and so I'm in 2006 I got a studio on Borden Avenue with a view of the midtown tunnel in a Long Island railroad tracks on one side midtown tunnel on the other side. There were quite a few artists in the building there was a painter up on the top floor there was another guy who worked in the building. There were also furniture makers in there was seen all kinds of different people in the building. I got it I got this incredible Studio space with a view of New York City and you know I could get out here from where I was living in New York City over the 59th Street Bridge very easily.
Leslie: Do you think that is what attracted a lot of people to come to that neighborhood, the location itself?
Jack: You know there was still was wonderful and there still is to a certain extent although it seems to be disappearing. There was really wonderful industrial infrastructure you know there was buildings that were allowing you know the possibility to weld.  To weld you can't go in the building it's made out of wood you know I kind of concrete floors, cinderblock wall, and large doors to get stuff in and out of and so to have a there was there was the right kind of buildings for artist to be working in so that's one reason. The second reason was that it was at that time much less expensive than having us to use impossible to have a studio in SoHo it was impossible to have a studio in Williamsburg and so you know in terms of just financially being able to find enough space Long Island City was a great option for that. You know when I first came out here to Long Island City in 2006 there was one there was two large towers there was a Citibank building which has been there since.
Jack: Take the 90s. You know and then there was a tower on the Water by the Pepsi sign. I think it's called the Avalon it's the red one. That’s the only two big buildings everything else was small low Industrial neighborhood. So you know I came out here I moved out here I got my studio and I found an incredible community of working artists and I very quickly after the first couple of years of working and commuting over the bridge and getting to know the neighborhood and the people around me. There started a great organization called The Long Island City Art open. The Long Island City Arts open I believe it’s in its 9th year. I've been involved every single year since it started and really it was started by a guy named Richard Mazda who still in the neighborhood who has the theater of the secret Theatre. He had this idea that you could promote the Arts and you can bring people to Long Island City.
Jack: To be a part of what the artists are making by utilizing some of the underutilized areas in the neighborhood. So what he really started to do was he would find empty commercial spaces and he would for a week in May fill them with arts and fill them with shows and so he would have in a local curators and he would have local artists and they would put in a sculpture in an empty commercial space. The landlords would agree to give us the space cuz it was only a week or two and they were getting people in there to see the spaces and a community building. As soon as I started doing the Long Island City Arts open I became very friendly with all those professional working artists that were out here you know members of Long Island City Arts. Richard from the secret Theatre are you know there was you know people who are out here for you know 20 30 years you know as artists and working in studios. I felt like I was starting to really become a part of this great community.
Jack: What is really amazing creative Community where everybody was supporting each other they were going to each other's openings they were helping each other solve problems you know if somebody needed you know like something made out of neon you went to go see Kenny Greenberg was the neon guy and then you know if somebody else was you know having an issue with you no tiling or mosaic you would talk to Karen about that. You know if you needed something in Ceramics you go to the guys at Brick House and talk to them at the Ceramics and then there was this amazing energy among these people.
Leslie: Do you still find that know?
Jack: Oh definitely I find that now. I wouldn’t still be here you know where all you know it in some ways really kind of like fighting for our life. I mean you know this is 2006 and it was still sort of quiet out here you know very quickly you know after like 2008 you know so like 2009 building started to be built no and developer started coming in and I started snatching up properties and they started building Towers. I mean you know the skyline of Long Island City now in 2018 compared to when I came out here in 2016 is like a completely different place. I mean you know there's a dozen or more towers by the Avalon now in the water there are in a tall building basically all around the Citibank building now it doesn't stand there all by itself anymore. So as I’ve been out here for the last 12 years I've seen this incredible change in the neighborhood, and this incredible push to start a build out here. One of the drawbacks of that I mean it's great the people discovered Long Island City one of the drawbacks of that is that the industrial spaces the commercial spaces you know the places where artists are working you are being demolished in or the rents are getting too high or you know the artist or just getting pushed out because I was going up in you know the towers have you know hundreds of residential apartments in them and the people that are going to be out there are not necessarily like , they are living there it's residential on so that the community of artists in the places that we have the kind of working and do our thing is being diminished . That being said there is that being said you look very Vibrant Community out here I mean a lot of people that I first met you know they're still here you know they found a way to kind of stay and work and we found
Jack: Sympathetic landlords that support the Arts don't want to see that kind of Creative Energy drained from the neighborhood. What makes the neighborhood so great is that creative energy. Long Island City Art open started as a very sort of you know quiet ramshackle band of artists you know like putting shows on you. This past year we had shown in you know there's a couple of buildings over behind LaGuardia Community College that you know they're like very serve successful commercial buildings in that there's offices and there's food production and their Studios and there's like one of them has offices for Macy's in it and a they are viable legitimate spaces  now but they preserve small spaces for artist to be able to show their work and so they understood that this Creative Energy is important to the neighborhood, and they supposed it in many different ways. So we had a couple of shows over there this past May where we had hundreds of people that openings over the course of you know night after night after night and multiple shows and there's a couple of galleries over there that go year-round now I sort of Long Island City Arts open galleries year-round and they have you know productive shows in the members of the community put group shows in and they have solo shows. So they're their there has been this you know preservation of the community that I found out here really by the community advocating for yourself. So one of the things that you know I find the most appealing about Long Island City is this really tight-knit community of artist that exists and is trying to hold on and that is supporting each other and working together. You know I mean one of the great sculptors of Our Generation Mark has had a studio in Long Island City on the water. For many many many years I think he came out here in the 80s it was Total Industrial Wasteland he bought something nobody wanted transformed into an amazing studio for himself and the outgrowth of that was a Socrates Sculpture Park which is right nearby and is a very well respected you know world class Sculpture Park now. So those kinds of investments in the community that the artist of made of really made it what it is today and so I think because a lot of artists and put their time and energy into creating a home out here, they want to continue to have a home out here so they're they're hanging on not to be sort of driven out by a lot of what's going on in Long Island City. You know the building where we are now this hallway here has.
Jack: For other Studios besides mine and so there's five of us artist on this one hallway here you know. When I moved into this building I was the only artist on this hallway. That really also speaks to the fact that like the landlord that I have now wants to support the Arts. He recognizes the value of having you know people in his buildings that are artists and so he has been very sympathetic to the community of artists and has.
Use his building as a place where artists can come in work and you seeing that. In some way it's great because we have this Vibrant Community here and the people in this building who are you know serve on the same page that I am I need a hand I find it sort of, troubling because it indicates that there's not a lot of other places for them to go right like where one of the last bastions of studios and so that's really you know kind of difficult for you know. The group of people that that are that are out here. You know because if all of a sudden you know this building gets old and you know a big huge development Tower goes up there's not really a next place for us to go.
Jack: For many years do you know in Long Island City in app developers are by buildings and tear them down and put up a big tower and there were other places you could go around that and that's get that's becoming harder and harder to do. A because there's less places for artist to go there they're full of artist so there's not a whole lot empty places to go.
Leslie: Do you see that being something that might happen here eventually?
Jack: You know I would like to think that my current landlord is sympathetic enough to want to preserve the community that he has sort of supported in his building. I think that becomes more and more difficult when the value of the properties in the neighborhood is going up and up and up. You know it's very difficult when the value of what you're somebody will pay is a lot more than what you're getting every year and rent. It becomes a comes a more difficult decision. I think for now I'm okay and I think he's sympathetic to our sir cause but he's also running a business so it might become more difficult . I wanted to make sure to talk about was just in addition to the community that I found is part of Long Island City Art open. You know there was an amazing community of people that live out here that are not particularly artist but see the value of the artist bring to their neighborhoods. They see the you know the cleanup say do the activities they do the benefits you know the fundraisers the end and the value that we bring not necessarily by building buildings, but commitment to the community and sell a lot of our neighbors. A lot of our neighbors who aren’t necessarily artists are very supportive and you know helpful to our causes to try to let you know Preserve. The other thing we were talking about were the places to work out here before the proximity the city is really unbeatable you know the fact that you can get right on the 59th Street Bridge and come right over here and get to the studio is. Part of the attraction for sure you know I mean I'm a huge bike commuter.
Leslie:  I was just going to ask you how do you normally come into the city.
Jack: I’ve been a bike Commuter for many years you know I mean I grew up in town in Manhattan doing a lot of cycling, and so it was very natural for me to ride my bike back and forth from Manhattan to Long Island City. So at least half of the time I come out here I'm on my bike you know I actually keep I don't park your car in the city I keep my car out here.
Leslie- Any reason why?
Jack: I have a parking spot as part of my lease in my loading dock but it's also much less expensive to have a spot here then on the upper east side. I don’t actually use my car in the city. I take my bike or public transportation. I actually take my kids to school on a bike so I’ll take the kids to school on the bike and then come out here so being able to get back and forth so easily is part of what made it so unbelievably attractive. But you know it really.
Jack: The thing that and so for my own sculpture one of the things that I am coming up against as you can see is space and storage. You know like my space is very small it's packed to the gills I have very little room to actually be making a lot of new work and so space is something that I'm really up against now. I have spent many years making what I have now work but I'm at a point where I really need a bigger space because of the pressures on the neighborhood from developers because of the artist being sort of squeezed into smaller and smaller areas because of the value of the properties in the neighborhood it's a very difficult for me to find a bigger space here and so I'm really struggling right now with this.

Jack: Idea of where can I go to get a bigger space. unfortunately, it is looking more and more difficult to find something in Long Island City or Queens.  I have a few friends that have gone North if you're up into Astoria you know and they've been able to find Space up there. I have had a more difficult time finding space up there because a lot of the people that have been displaced out of Long Island City have gone up into Astoria and so there's also less options there. I'm kind of struggling now where am I going to go and you know maybe if I find a space in the South Bronx you know I'll get more space it'll be less expensive but I'll have to leave this neighborhood I'll have to leave these people have to leave this community and so that is something I don’t really want to do and and then I'm sure fighting and that I want to.
Leslie: Hold off as long as possible.
Jack: I just it's too big a trade-off at this point you know because the community of artists exist here have become part of my daily routine they have become part of my working life they become people that I collaborate with you know I did a show with a local painter out in Jamaica Queens recently and you know he was showing some work out there and I can talk to the gallery curator and said there's some sculpture that would look great with my drawings and we work together and so you know there's this amazing sense of helping each other which is not what you think of in the art world . You know you think of the art world as this Cutthroat get ahead at any cost Do Your Own Thing don't help anybody else and it's totally the opposite out here in this neighborhood you know. We work with each other we work for each other we help each other we do shows together you know I mean I'll lend my check to somebody to put a show in nearby.
I'll come help me put my work in and it becomes this incredibly tight knit creative environment that I'm not sure exists in a whole lot of other places. You know I don’t think it exists in Williamsburg anymore. cuz it's not really a whole lot of working artists down there you know and there are some pockets of Brooklyn where there's lots of really great stuff going on. I don't know that the people in those places have the longevity of a lot of the people here. I mean I know artist should have been out here working as artists in their Studios for 20 or 30 years which is like unheard of and they have a commitment to the neighborhood in a way that I don't see any.
Jack: So you know I am currently I'm still in Long Island City I certainly don't want to go anywhere you know I mean I'm trying to find some storage options in the neighborhood that I'm hoping you're going to pan out so that I'll be able to have some more room to work. Yeah you know queens has been incredibly important to the development of my work not just in the strides that I've taken professionally since I've been here working here but it's really the connections in the community that I have become a part of being out here that you were saying away.
Leslie: Which is cool because you don’t always think city and the close knit connections.
Leslie:  Regarding your family when you were going to school and kind of realize that are kind of passion of yours was your family support of that? Was anybody in your family and big art person in general? 
Jack: So my mom is a journalist. My dad was a book publisher and so you know the Arts were. Certainly supported you know I think you know it wasn't easy you know when I said I wanted to be an artist because it tends to be very difficult to be able to you know do it professionally.  Some of those early public sculptures shows, I started working a lot for City governments and so I found a niche in public sculpture where I have work currently all over the country. I’m actually on my way to North Carolina tomorrow to put a sculpture up in Fayetteville North Carolina so I have found a way to be working professionally and making a living and being an artist by pursuing the public sculpture realm. I still do a lot of work for people's homes you know I do private sculptures I do work for galleries but probably 75% of the work I do is with City governments and public art shows. Part that’s what I really like about that is. As I said before you don't you don't have to walk into a gallery instead of Wonder you know do I need to buy anything and you see it on the street you interact with that you put it out in the people's lives in a way that's a lot more approachable and a lot easier for people to come into contact with. So yeah my parents were very supportive of me wanting to be in the arts.
Jack: You know as soon as they saw me sort of really decide to do it in a way that was I was really pursuing it you like when I was working for the blacksmith you know they realize that I was trying to gain a deeper understanding the material on so they kind of got that I was also getting paid to make Furniture, so that helped. Then when I was at the arts student league working on figure drawing. They say my style in the understanding so that when I did finish at the arts student league and started making sculpture again very soon thereafter it started to to be recognized started to be display and it started to go in the sculpture parks and started to go into galleries and stuff .so the success that followed a lot of the preparation I did in terms of learning the material and then the subject matter paid off and someone became very clear that I wasn't just kind of like doing it you it half way
Leslie: It was very clear that it wasn’t just a passion.
Jack: It was sort of a way to connecting the dots to a career which is really good and you know the great thing about it is that you know my two little kids I have an 8-year-old daughter and a five-year-old son and you know they they come out to the studio they know what I do you know they come out here and you know. I teach them to use the tools I let them get dirty and so they also have this connection to the neighborhood and the people in the neighborhood because they are a part of it with me and so it's nice to be able to pass that on to them that you know what it isn't just about finding a place to do what it is you want to do but it's finding a community to do what you do and the community around is going to support what you're doing.
Leslie: Anything else. Items that you wanted to talk about?
Jack: Predictions for change of the next 5 years?
Jack: I sort of sort of shudder to think of the next five years in this neighborhood the pace of change seems to be unstoppable. You know buildings are going up around here at frenetic Pace developers are gobbling up land and buildings you know before anybody else gets a chance at them. The prices have gotten so high that it's sort of Untouchable for us everyday artist to even try to think about you know getting a little building or trying to buy something. You know I mean there was a building across the street here that was a 4000 square foot shell with no roof so busy was four walls with no roof and it would have been a beautiful little Studio building and it ended up selling for over 2 million dollars. So you know when it starts to get like that and every day new artists like myself or new artists. Finding a place to work you know I sort of worried about what the future is going to be like out here you know I don't know that the developers have a sense of preserving this amazing Community the doubt hear you know they were.

• 37:16 - 37:48
How to build buildings with filament people and go on to the next one so I don't know how much longer the community can survive out here quite frankly. I think it's some point it will be you know completely pushed out by the developers which is sort of you know what always happens you know. It’s what happened in Sao Hollow and it’s what happened in Williamsburg and you know it took a lot longer in Long Island City then I think people thought it would and unfortunately seems like it is going to end up happening so you know where we all go is but good question but, yeah I don't know the future unfortunately doesn't seem like you know all that bright out here for artists for artists for developers it’s different.
Leslie: Perfect thank you thank you.



