Queens Memory Project Oral History Interview Content Outline  Neighborhood (if any):  Cambria Heights, Queens   Date of Interview:  February 14, 2017  Name of interviewee: Susie Jackson Name of interviewer: Nesrine Ramadan Length of interview:  11 minutes 30 seconds Name of editor:  Tenzin Tseten Timecode Preparer:  Tenzin Tseten  Editing software:   Adobe Soundbooth  Languages Used:   English  Summary: Ms. Susie Jackson lived in South Carolina before moving to New York City. While living down South, she experienced a broken heart when her first love at the age of sixteen was married by his parents to another woman. Even to this day Ms. Jackson wishes she had married her first love. She continues the interview by going into more detail about her broken heart story and how she was able cope with this incident that impressed her life.   00:00:26 Ms. Susie Jackson felt in love when she was sixteen years old. She and her first love ended up marrying different people. The man who Ms. Susie loved was married by his parents to another woman. They kept on seeing each other even after they both got married and they both knew it was wrong. Susie moved to New York City to move on. Her husband was an abuser and looking back she wishes she would have married her love from when she was sixteen. Ms. Jackson is a widow. 00:04:22 Ms. Susie Jackson says it took some years to get over her love of a married man. She tells us that she achieved this by praying. Her former husband was diagnosed with prostate cancer just before they were about to get married. Her husband kept this his diagnosis a secret for a while and she was angry when she wasn’t told about it. Now Ms. Jackson learns that she lost her ability to trust in people. She talks about even to this day she has phone conversations with her first love. She seems him when she family in South Carolina on special holidays. 00:08:07 Ms. Susie discusses the notion of trust in relationships and what it means to her. She also goes into discussing how relationships can be based on an imbalance of feelings and affection.  