Queens Memory Project
Oral History Interview Timecode Outline
City: Astoria, Queens NY
Neighborhood (if any):
Interviewer: Claro de los Reyes and Jennifer Quiambao
Interviewee: Linda Jimenez
Interview Date: October 13, 2015
Interviewee’s Date of Birth:
Length of Interview: 1hr 15min 18sec
Editing Software: Adobe Sound Booth
Timecode Outline Preparer: Toby Ahn
Summary: 	Linda is a long-term resident who is living in New York in Astoria. In the Interview, she discussed about the times when she came to New York to start a new life with new people and her daughter. Her friends, family, and religion influenced her life so much which gave her so much hope in her life. She also discussed about how her neighborhood has changed so much till these days and how the Filipino community has been doing in the past and now. 
00:01:05	Linda came to New York in 1972 as a tourist and she didn’t know that she was pregnant. Since she was young, she didn’t have any hardships that she had to go through before. 
00:01:30	Linda had to raise her daughter by herself. Her husband asked her to come back, but she refused because she wanted to start a new life here in New York for a better living with her daughter.  
00:02:02	Linda didn’t feel any emotional pain because she was so focused on work and taking care of her daughter. She was able to provide her with education. 
00:03:55	back then, when Linda was still a tourist, she didn’t have any license to work any professional jobs. However, she met with an Italian couple that worked in a beauty parlor and they hired her. She worked there for 15 years. 
00:04:23	after that, Linda got her own beauty parlor. Before that, in 1981, she ended up buying a chicken and ribs restaurant in Rego Park. Her chicken and Ribs restaurant was her stepping stone to opening a beauty parlor.
00:05:28	Before Linda made the decision to start a new life in New York, in the Philippines, she was a make-up artist. Back then, going to New York was easy, because it was right before the Marshall Law took place. 
00:08:30	when she moved in with a roommate in Elmhurst, her roommate didn’t like it if her baby was crying, so Linda was in depression. However, there was a kind family that helped her out and let her stay with them until she found a new place to live.  
00:10:45	she had her baby in December 10. 
00:11:55	back then, there weren’t as much Filipinos in New York. When she lived with the family in their apartment, she used to do everyone’s hair. Linda was a hustler; she did home service, manicure, pedicure, perm, and other things. 
00:13:05	Linda had very good customers. When she got paid, she never wanted to take a cab, or bus, because she thinks that she might leave her child. The child was never problem for her; when she was working, she was always in her room and doing her own things and not bothering Linda, her mother.
00:13:38	Linda’s first impression of New York City was that when she was looking at the trees in New York, she thought about what was so nice about New York. She misses her family in the Philippines and wants to help her family out. It wasn’t for her daughter; she probably would have gone back to the Philippines. 
00:14:47	Linda had a nice boss back then who treated her like a family which was the Italian couple she met before. She was devoted to them for about 15 years.
00:16:37	Linda was not part of any religious communities back then; she met a lot of people though.
00:18:55	Linda was part of the Santa Minio, but she wasn’t part of it for that long. 
00:25:11	Linda stayed at Lefrak City for 2 months. She brought her roommate who kicked her out and her friends were mad at her for bringing her. Linda told them she was kind enough to let her stay and her friends told her that she still kicked her out. 
00:26:51	the father of her daughter got married. Linda went to the wedding and she met with a photographer, who became her husband.
00:28:11	Linda and her husband went out for a while. But they didn’t get married until 1981. After she left Lefrak City, Linda went to Sunnyside.
00:28:44	Linda stayed at Sunnyside for about 20 years or more. 
00:31:06	Linda and her husband wanted a house that was offered by their neighbor doctor in the late 80s but it was too expensive for them. They first gave it up, until the neighbors came up to them again and made an offer to sell the house for a cheaper house. However, they couldn’t make that deal because they couldn’t zone Linda’s beauty parlor. Later on, Linda got a phone call from her lawyer and they approved her deal and they bought their house in a cheaper price that was offered before.
00:36:17	her husband is now self-employed, they don’t have much money in the bank, and now their rent is too low, so they couldn’t get the mortgage.  
00:36:55	Linda’s friend (her lawyers secretary, Chinese) became a mortgage manager at a Greek Bank. Friend helped her apply and secure a mortgage. 
00:37:39	Linda believes that God (Mama Mary) is the one who planned this for her and offered her so many opportunities for a good life.
00:38:06	When Linda was at Sunnyside before, there was a religious Filipino community there that she used go to. It was first religious community that she joined. When she went to the religious community, she met her first best friend, Jacobi there, which was the cousin of her roommate. She admires her so much because she went through so much hardship; she was diagnosed with diabetes, and she became blind before, but she eventually went through procedure and she was able to see once again.
00:40:30	when Jacobi got better, she went back to her religious group. Linda went to the religious group as well, and that is when she started to get interested in being part of the religious group. They first went Linda’s house and go there every Sunday and praise together because they were a small group until later, their group started to gain more members, they went back to their church. Even till this day, they go to Church every Sunday. 
00:48:11	Linda started working in Astoria since 1972, and she started her business in 1987.
00:48:37	Linda’s neighborhood has changed a lot before. Originally, there used to be a lot of Italian and Irish people in the neighborhood, but mostly these days, there has been a lot of Greek people. A lot of young professional people that lived in Manhattan now live in her neighborhood too, because Manhattan has been becoming more expensive lately. 
00:49:25	there isn’t that much Filipino community in her neighborhood before, but now they have a few people in her neighborhood. There are more Filipino people in Jackson Heights and Woodside now. 
00:51:02	her life before Marshall Law happened wasn’t that bad. But when Marshall Law did happen, it was terrible. 
00:52:31	Linda is glad that she was able to find a job from her bosses and friends. Since Marshall was happening, it is really difficult to find a job now. 
00:55:17	Linda’s favorite memory from working in her beauty Parlor is her customers. Her customers were like her family; she treated them as a family member. They used to feed her customers too, since there was a kitchen upstairs in her beauty parlor. 
00:57:00 	her husband was a businessman and Linda was just a worker. After he passed away, Linda had a difficult time dealing with the financial issues because her husband did it for her. Her husband did everything for Linda and her daughter; he tried his best to make them happy. 
01:02:35	Linda has two sisters; she is the youngest one out of all of them. She is glad that she came to New York so that she could help them out. Her father and mother passed away. 
01:04:41	throughout the years, Linda has met a lot of people in different communities. She made a lot of friends in her religious community.
01:11:12	the lesson that Linda wants to share is that we have to let go a lot of resentment to live in a peaceful way. We have to forgive and love you, other people and God. Linda doesn’t worry about what other people say.        

