Queens Memory Project Oral History Interview Timecode Outline   Neighborhood:    Flushing Date of Interview:    February 8, 2017 Time Period:     1940 – 2017 Name of Interviewee:   Carole Josepowitz Name of Interviewer:   Daniela Sheinin Length of Interview:   55 mins, 9 secs Audio Clip Editor:    Tenzin Tseten Timecode Outline Preparer:  Daniela Sheinin / Richard Lee  Summary: Carole Josepowitz spent the majority of her life in Flushing. In this interview, she discusses her early childhood and family members, including her grandparents, parents, and children. She depicts her old neighborhood by describing former businesses, particularly her grandfather’s fabric store. She discusses neighborhood and population change, its impact on her own life and Flushing more broadly.   00:00 Introduction, Carole was born at Flushing Hospital in 1940.  00:42 Describes her earliest memory of being in her apartment house and seeing shops outside.   1:45 Discusses her parents’ backgrounds – when they moved to Flushing and where they lived.   2:47 Carole’s maternal grandparents were from Russia, her paternal grandparents were from Hungary. Her paternal grandparents originally lived in Flushing on Bowne Street and later moved to Miami Beach, Florida. Carole’s parents met each other at a single’s event hosted by the synagogue Temple Gates of Prayer. Temple Gates hosted the event in their old location on Roosevelt Avenue, Flushing. Carole lived three blocks of her mother after she got married. Unfortunately, her Dad passed away a few months after her wedding. Her children grew up closer with their grandmother and their uncle (Carole’s brother). Carole’s brother assisted her in locating an apartment for her when she decided to move back from Long Island.  3:28 She describes her younger brother.   3:43 Continues talking about her apartment house; It was built in 1922, and she lived there from 1940 until 1969 when she got married. She then lived on Sanford Avenue from 1969 to 1991 with her husband and two daughters.   4:40 Her children were born 1974 and 1976 in Flushing.   5:03 She discusses how long she has lived in Queens. She lived six years in Patchogue, Long Island, where she owned a private house. She moved back to Flushing when her husband was involved in a major car accident on Long Island. Carole took driving lessons after the accident but found it too traumatic to drive a car. She quotes this as one of her reasons why she moved to back to the exact same building she grew up in Flushing.   5:58 She went to the original P.S. 20, and graduated in 1953. She then attended Flushing High School and graduated in 1957.  7: 12 Explains what she did for fun – spent time with friends, roller-skating, biking, and her dad would drive them to museums, the zoo, and Rockaway Beach. Carole went to the movies at the Prospect Theater on Main Street Flushing on Saturdays, with her friends or brother. They often showed cartoons and other movies. The theater is no longer in existence. The RKO Keith's on Northern Blvd, in downtown Flushing was another movie theater that Carole went to. The theater was landmarked and damaged by a builder who wanted to construct condos in 1986. Several buyers are looking into building on the property now, and have promised to retain the building’s historic lobby.   7:52 She discusses going to the beach, noting a special road near John F. Kennedy Airport where planes came close to the ground.   8:39 Her own kids’ childhoods: The family had a car, so they were able to visit her in-laws and cousins on Long Island. She discusses the generations of her family that lived in Flushing. Carole’s maternal grandmother lived across the hall from her – and visiting was always fun. Carole and husband took her children to Long Island to visit their paternal grandparents and cousins. Their Grandma always made Thanksgiving dinner and Passover Seder. She and her children got to spend time with their grandfather and cousins. The holiday meals became a family tradition.  10:21 The historical significance and landmark status of areas/buildings in Flushing, including the Free Synagogue of Flushing, Bowne House, Quaker Meeting House, the RKO Theatre and the Queens Historical Society.   13:10 She outlines Flushing borders. Discusses her grandfather’s fabric store on Main St, which no longer exists.    14:55 Carole details her experiences spending time in the fabric store.   16:05 Carole’s father was a salesman at a men’s clothing store in Manhattan.   16:46 Her mother worked in the fabric shop, and was later a saleswoman in Bedroom Ensembles at Bloomingdale’s in Manhattan. She had to return to work when her husband – my father passed away.   18:02 Her brother was also a salesman of multiple things. One example she gave was selling industrial hardware to elevator manufacturers.   18:50 Carole worked at the Queens Historical Society (brings out the newsletter she typed). She also worked at the Flushing Library, and when her children were in school she worked for the PTA and was editor of the school paper (brings out copies of the paper, and awards she had won for her service). One of her proudest achievements was that she initiated playground repairs at P.S. 20 by writing to a state senator to ask that repairs be made (brings out before and after photos of playground).   24:31 After graduating from college, Carole’s older daughter worked as an editor for True Story Magazine, which is now out of business. Her youngest daughter continued to work in advertising after her graduation and marriage. Her youngest daughter has two young boys.  (goes through several documents she brought to show me – photographs, newsletters)   25:52 Love of writing  27:17* Carole used to attend services at the Free Synagogue of Flushing. As a child she went for religious instruction on Sundays, her daughters celebrated their Bat Mitzvah’s there. Membership has declined over the years; she now observes holidays at home. It has gone through major changes, and because it’s an open space for prayer, a lot of the people who go there are not Jewish. Old members have passed away, moved, or stopped going.   33:00 Carole started noticing a change in the late 1990s, when she returned from Long Island. The immigrant population had built up Flushing from its run down character when she left.   33:34 Discusses the difficulties of transportation on Long Island.  34:19 Other major changes in the neighborhood are the number of people. It’s a convenient area with bus lines and subways, banks, and shops. Vehicular and sidewalk traffic are overwhelming.   36:49 Most of the businesses she once knew in the area are no longer there. She describes her social activities, including the botanical gardens. Her old high school friends moved out to Long Island. Unfortunately they won’t come to visit her in Flushing because street parking is very difficult in Flushing.   38:20 She is now on the board of directors for her co-op and takes meeting minutes. She discusses why people move to Flushing.   39:25 She talks more about neighborhood change, and notes that she doesn’t miss what she doesn’t have.   40:54 Carole went to the 1964/65 New York World’s Fair, but wouldn’t go to Flushing Meadows – Corona Park now. There’s no need to. The only area she goes to is the Botanical Gardens, and praises security.   42:10 Discusses displays at the World’s Fair. She mentions recent renovations on former World’s Fair structures and transportation to the park. She remembers Belgian Waffles, the futuristic aspect of the fair, and television. After the fair, she would only return a couple of times; the Queens Zoo was there.   46:35 Discusses other parks in the area - Bowne Park and Kissena Park. Carole recalls visiting Martin’s Field via bus with her mother and brother. Occasionally her father would drive them there on the weekends. Martin’s Field also known as Olde Towne Park had a playground when she was younger. Martin’s Field wading pool was fun to use in the summer. There was a big renovation in 2004, which was completed in 2008. Carole found out that the Park used to be a Native American and African American burial site.  47:07 She returns to her daughters and discusses their college experience and life since then.   49:41 The meaning of Flushing: For Carole, Flushing means community, and family stories. The population keeps growing, and she describes the characters you see on the sidewalks.   52:21 end of interview, she brings out more photos and old documents until end of recording.    