Queens Memory Project Oral History Interview Timecode Outline  City:      Floral Park/Glen Oaks Neighborhood:    Date of Interview:    February 04, 2018 Time Period:     1990-2018 Interviewee Date of Birth:   September 21, 1990 Name of Interviewee:   Lakshman Kalasapudi Name of Interviewer:    Fran Kipnis  Length of interview:    00 hr. 56 minutes and 45 seconds Name of editor:   Adrianna Kumar Editing Software:   Adobe Soundbooth Timecode Outline Preparer:  Fran Kipnis  Summary:   Lakshman Kalasapudi was born in the Bronx on September 21, 1990. His family moved to the Floral Park/Glen Oaks section of Queens in 1994.  Both parents were born in India and are medical doctors.  They moved to Queens to work at the Long Island Jewish Medical Center (now called Northwell Health) in New Hyde Park. There is a large South Asian population in this area of Queens. Lakshman has played a leadership role in the South Asian and LGBTQ communities. He serves on the Board of Directors of the South Asian Lesbian and Gay Association of New York City (SALGA) and works at India Home, which provides culturally appropriate services to South Asian seniors living in Queens.   00:00:00 This is a Queens Memory Project interview for Lakshman Kalasapudi at 67-71 Yellowstone Blvd., Forest Hills, New York on February 4, 2018 at 3:07 PM.  00:01L03 Lakshman was born in the Bronx and raised in Queens. His parents moved to Queens in 1994. Both parents were from the south-eastern state of Andhra Pradesh, India. Both parents were from very small-town, rural-village settings. His mother (Vasundhara Devi Kalasapudi), came from a village outside of a town called Saluru, his father (Srinivasa Kalasapudi Rao), came from Bobbili. These were neighboring towns. Lakshman’s parents went to school together. That is how they met. They fell love and got married.  This is unusual, as many traditional Indian marriages are arranged.    00:02:08 Both parents studied in Visakhapatnan, which is third-tier Indian City. His mother completed her medical degree and MBBS (Bachelor of Medicine Bachelor of Surgery – from the British educational system). His father completed a bachelor’s and master’s degree in science. They were married in Hyderabad which is a bigger city. His father started his Ph.D. there, but that program did not work out.  He then applied for, and received, a scholarship to complete a Ph.D. program in Paris (Universite Paris Descartes). His parents were married, and his father left for Paris (1984).  00:02:52 Lakshman’s sister was born in India soon after this. His mother lived with her parents before joining his father in Paris in 1985. Lakshman’s parents lived in Paris until 1988. In 1988, his father came to Albert Einstein College of Medicine to complete a post-doctoral program.  The family lived on Rhinelander Avenue in the Bronx.    00:03:42 Lakshman’s mother also completed a post-doc while she was in Paris and at Albert Einstein Hospital. Lakshman was born at Jack D. Weiler Hospital in 1990. His father then received a professorship at Long Island Jewish Medical Center, that is now called Northwell Health.    00:04:14 The family then moved near the hospital, on the boarder of Long Island and Queens. There are different names for this area: Floral Park, New Hyde Park, and Glen Oaks. Lakshman was four years old when the family moved there.   00:04:58 According to Lakshman, Glen Oaks is great place to raise your kids. It is a very family-oriented neighborhood.  When the family first moved to the area (Floral Park), it was predominantly Jewish and Christian. At some point in the 1990’s, it became heavily South Asian. Lakshman does not remember the change, as it was always that way when he was growing up.   00:05:42 Lakshman started elementary school in 1995. He attended PS 115, now called the James J. Ambrose School, from 1995-2001. Lakshman thinks that by 2000, 50 percent of the school was South Asian.  00:06:09 South Asians are a very heterogeneous and diverse population.  There are Hindus, Malayali Christians, and Punjabi Sikhs. These are all different languages, cultures, and religions. There was always a huge mix of South Asians.   00:06:41 What drew South Asians to the neighborhood, similar to his family, was the hospital (Long Island Jewish). South Asians are residents, physicians, scientists, and nurses. And then other South Asians followed because they felt comfortable moving to the area.   00:07:04 The area was affordable by New York City standards. Many residents commute to Manhattan via the Q46 if they are on Union Turnpike or the Q43 if they are on Hillside Ave. Then they take the trains into the City.  00:07:26 Floral Park was a great neighborhood. Lakshman’s family lived on 265th Street (76-22 265th Street) in a single-family home from 1994 to 2002. Then his parents purchased a larger house in Roslyn Heights, a few miles away on Long Island. However, the New Hyde Park/Bellerose/Floral Park/Glen Oaks area was always the main hub in terms of groceries and social networks. In 2009, his parents sold the house in Roslyn Heights and moved back to 260th Place (69-55 260th Place, Glen Oaks) in the Royal Ranch section, near North Shore Towers.  00:08:12 Lakshman went to college at Hunter College and then received his master’s degree. In 2014, he moved back home to help his mother. He is now living with his parents on 260th Place.   00:08:32 Floral Park was a very suburban neighborhood and a great place to raise kids. Glen Oaks Village, which is a co-op, village-type set up, has a court-yard structure so it was a very safe place for children to play. There were a lot of families with children. There was green space and parks. Lakshman could ride his bicycle all over the neighborhood.   00:09:18 There have not been many changes to the neighborhood since Lakshman was a child. Some Indians are building McMansions. (His family is living in one.)  These houses change the visual character of the neighborhood.  There was some resentment by the white Christian and Jewish population about South Asians moving in. Now the South Asians are resentful of the blacks moving in.  More African Americans are moving in because it is a good neighborhood to raise children.  There are now a few homeless people in the neighborhood, so there are some subtle changes.  But it is a solidly middle-class area.   00:10:35 Lakshman then talked about being gay in that neighborhood.  He said it is very family oriented, heteronormatively oriented. Because of the kinds of ethnicities and communities settling there, being gay is not ‘a thing for him’ in the neighborhood.  He does appreciate it when it comes up! Lakshman has seen some gay people on grindr.  In fact, Lakshman just discovered that an older couple, living in the house behind his house, have a gay son living in Brooklyn. They bonded over the fact that they were gay and neighbors, but there is not much of a gay community in the area.  00:11:52 Lakshman was happy when he thought the Long Island Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Transgender (LGBT) Network had opened the Queens Lesbian and Gay Community (Q Center) at the Samuel Field Y, off Little Neck Parkway. However, when he went to the Samuel Field Y, nobody knew where it was.  The Q Center eventually opened in Long Island City which was disappointing.  Lakshman wishes it had been closer to the suburban Queens area.  00:13:05 Lakshman mentioned that ‘lesbian and gay’ are terms from the 1980’s and are not as relevant today. There are many more identities. Lakshman tries to brand SALGA (South Asian Lesbian and Gay Association of New York City) as an LGBQT organization to be more inclusive.  It is a volunteer community group which was started in 1991 by South Asians who needed to connect as sexual minorities.  It is an all-volunteer collective. SALGA provides a peer, mental health support group once a month, political actions, and assistance to community members needing asylum, and social and economic supports. It is a place where Queens South Asians can feel safe and validated. It is a place to express both identities together – gay and South Asian - and not bifurcate the two identities.   00:14:32 Lakshman came out when he was in high school (2006).  It was fine. His parents raised him ‘very Indian’ but not in conventional ways. It was not religious, but very civic oriented. The core culture of Telugu, his family’s ethnicity and language, was very present.  Lakshman mentioned that a lot of second- generation Telugu raised in American can’t speak the language, but he and his sister can do so.  00:15:40 When Lakshman came out (2006), he googled ‘Indian and gay in NYC’ and SALGA came up. He went to his first support group, in September 2007, just before he turned 17. The main way to connect with SALGA is through the support group.  SALGA is housed in the LGBT Center in Manhattan on 13th Street in Chelsea.  He went to a few more support group meetings and marched in his first Manhattan LGBT Pride March with SALGA in 2008. It was a mind-blowing experience for him.    00:16:38 In 2008, Lakshman moved to 25th Street (425 E 25th Street) to the Hunter dorms. SALGA needed new leadership and new members. He decided to jump in even though he was just 18 and most everyone else was in their 30’s and 40’s. He was on the SALGA Steering Committee from 2008 to 2010.  00:17:23 SALGA issues are always about visibility and the perennial problem of coming out.  People who came to SALGA in 1991 and will come to SALGA in 2021 have the same issues.  It is always going to be difficult to come out. This difficulty needs to be acknowledged, validated, helped, and appreciated.  According to Lakshman, in the past 10 years, the issue of visibility has changed a lot for queers in general - for example, doing drag in saris, being queer and South Asian, and being South Asian in LGBTQ spaces, which are often very white dominated.  00:18:28 Lakshman would like to think that this is not an issue for young, queer South Asians. They are in their own queer, South Asian bubble and don’t feel a need to engage.  That is a good and bad thing. Many SALGA Steering Committee members are first generation and still very close to their own country.  Homeland politics also informs SALGA’s work.    00:20:24 In 2009, the Delhi Supreme Court struck down Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code (copied the British penal code) outlawing acts of sodomy and ‘sexual acts against the order of nature’. This was a big win for allies back in India.  This was an important issue for SALGA.  00:20:01 Another issue SALGA addressed was protesting and advocating to march in the India Day Parade (celebrating Indian independence, occurs every August). Through the 1990’s, the Federation of Indians in America (FIA), the governing body for the Parade, banned SALGA.  SALGA marched with SAKHI (a domestic violence organization for South Asian survivors) and other times protested the parade.  In 2009, with support from Senator Tom Dwayne and Councilmembers Christine Quinn and Danny Dromm, SALGA did march.    00:21:13 SALGA’s main activities are providing spaces where people can come and connect with others with similar experiences.  00:21:34 SALGA has always had a reputation as being the more privileged sector of the community. SALGA members speak English, are very well educated, come from upper-caste or upper-class families, and are upwardly mobile.  There is a disconnect with the bread and butter communities that live in the outer boroughs.    00:22:22 There are a lot of men who have sex with men (who may or may not be gay identified), trans folks, women, working class immigrants, non-English speakers, the undocumented, and people with socio-economic vulnerabilities whom SALGA has not always been able to bridge. In some respects, it is a good that SALGA is Manhattan based. It is easy for everyone to come from the outer-boroughs, as well as Long Island, Westchester, and New Jersey - the Tri-State area. It offers anonymity. If SALGA had an event in Jackson Heights (did try to do that) no one would come.  00:23:25 Lakshman commented that If you are born and raised in Jackson Heights and your entire social network is there, you are worried that family members will see you walking up the stairs of Queens Pride House on 37th Ave. Even making that step, knowing that it is your neighborhood, is kind of hard.  00:24:15 For example, if the Queens Pride Center was on Hillside Ave. and Little Neck Parkway. This area is very hard-core South Asian. Lakshman is known there for his work in the South Asian community. But he is not fully out, although it might be implied. If he is asked, he would not say no. But he is not waving the Pride flag in that context.  A few years ago, he would have had trepidation to step into that. Now at 28 years old, he is doing better.    00:25:11 Lakshman stepped off the SALGA Board in 2010. In 2012, he graduated from Hunter College and went to Winnipeg for a master’s degree in anthropology. He came back to NYC in the fall of 2014. He was still working on this master’s degree. By November 2015, SALGA needed more Steering Committee members, so he stepped in again.  He still serves on the Steering Committee. He will leave in May 2018, when he leaves NYC.  00:25:56 Lakshman will be moving to Baltimore. He is trying to get accepted to medical school.  00:26:10 Lakshman is not a member of any other gay organizations.  Lakshman talked about his privilege and insularity. Growing up in a South Asian area, his family did not give up their culture. They assimilated only to the degree they needed to. Lakshman feels connected to the villages his family comes from. He has a sense of responsibility to where his family came from.    00:27:23 According to Lakshman, insularity is not always a good thing. Because the South Asian community in New York is very small, you run into same people. He thinks he should branch out but is not sure how to do that.  The main-stream gay organizations are very white. The people of color, gay organizations are usually black or Latino. But the experience of being a person of color and a child of immigrant is different. Lakshman supports these organizations but does necessarily connect to them culturally.  00:28:31 Lakshman currently works at India Home. India Home provides culturally appropriate services to South Asian seniors living in Queens. His mother started the organization. She did so because she could not bring her parents to the United States, due to the lack of culturally appropriate medical services for older South Asian adults (2005, 2006). She had observed this issue with her family friends as well.  She got fed up with the situation.  She was a revolutionary in India. She was part of the Communist Party in India and almost had to go underground.    00:29:40 Something inspired her, and she said, ‘we have to do something’. She started India Home with her friends. She did not know what she was getting into.  In 2014, the organization was experiencing a lot of growth. Lakshman had worked in non-profits, and his mother said his help was needed. Lakshman agreed to help. Lakshman had been active in the South Asian community.  And, she could not afford any one else!  The people working there are very poorly paid.  Lakshman helped grow the organization, with his mother’s leadership.  00:30:52 India Home administers case management services, mental health counseling, and dementia services. It has grown a lot in the last few years. It is the ‘called upon’ agency that provides senior services in a culturally appropriate manner through an immigrant lens.  India Home only provides senior services.  All the seniors are immigrants and is a very heterogeneous population.  00:31:42 The main office is located in Jamaica Estates.  There are sites in Jamaica, Sunnyside, Kew Gardens, and Richmond Hill.    00:32:04 Lakshman stated that Queens is a great place to raise your kids and very family oriented. That is why a lot of South Asians moved to Queens.  It is very affordable and very safe. A number of South Asians have moved to Queens and aged there.  A number of South Asian working adults have brought their parents to Queens as older adult immigrants.  00:32:56 Unfortunately, there is a lot of market rate housing and a lot of overcrowding. The houses of worship and grocery stores are the main draws. Lakshman thinks he would like to live in a gay neighborhood, maybe, but he would need an Indian grocery store! Each neighborhood has a pocket where older adults feel most comfortable.  00:33:34 Lakshman is not sure if he would go to SAGE or India Home when he is older. He knows two older SALGA members who go to the LGBT Center, not India Home. He knows that many South Asians are not accepting of LGBT people, even people his age. Creating safe spaces and culture of acceptance is not yet where it should be.  00:34:56 SALGA members who are undocumented or seeking asylum are a little more apprehensive because of Trump.  The good thing about NYC is the possibility of being connected to some kind of community.  Because the South Asian community in NYC is so insular, it can cocoon you.  A lot of people are feeling a lot of tension with Trump and xenophobia, but it is possible to forget about it. The day to day of the community always goes on, such as religious festivals and  family gatherings.    00:36:34 Lakshman mentioned that South Asian communities in Texas for example, are more at threat, than in NYC.  But on the Q43, going to Bellerose, in the heart of Queens, a young woman’s Hajib was violently ripped off. However, ideally there are more community supports for recourse.  Because of Mayor De Blasio, the City government is very present in everyone’s lives. The City was not so integrated in the community under Bloomberg.  Trump is a lightning rod for City agencies to declare their support for immigrants, queers, women and all other communities. There is that reassurance and commitment to hard-to-reach communities on the City level.   00:38:18 Lakshman stated that Danny Dromm has been great.  He was a teacher, then decided to go into politics. Danny (Dromm) is not in it for himself. Many of the NYC councilmembers are from the community and that commands a lot of respect.  Danny (Dromm) is committed to recognizing himself as white man and is committed to all the communities in Queens.  Lakshman thinks it is hard to find someone so self-aware and such a great ally. Danny (Dromm) is cognizant of the lay of land in Queens and constantly makes space for ‘people like us’. According to Lakshman, the only reason there is not enough visibility for people of color on the Queens level, is they are not able to fulfill that capacity. Danny (Dromm) gives these communities a wide birth and they are not able to fulfill this.  00:40:05 Lakshman first met Danny (Dromm) when his mother went to lobby the councilmember for discretionary funds for India House.  Lakshman said he should go because he is gay, and that thing works!  Danny (Dromm) is a huge supporter of SALGA and India Home. He recognizes the need for these organizations.  He always tries to rope in SALGA and the South Asian community. For example, when Lavender Lines opened at the Queens Museum, Danny (Dromm) asked, ‘Where is the SALGA dance team?’ Danny remembers Lakshman and that is amazing because he knows so many people. Lakshman thinks he is doing really well as a councilmember and the City needs more people like him. Having someone like Danny Dromm in the council seat makes a difference. He is literally funding programs and saying you have to be on the stage to get that visibility. These are the narratives that are important. It is top down, but when you have good people at the top, it is ok.  00:42:32 Lakshman said that his mother was very important to his work. The amount of energy she has, and the practicality of her work, is very inspirational.  That is one of the reasons he is going into medicine.   00:43:15 In terms of the LGBT community, Urvashi Vaid, a lawyer by training, has been very inspirational to Lakshman. Urvashi is his mother’s age and came to America when she was 11 years old. Her parents were highly educated. They came in the 1960’s, the first wave from India. She grew up in NY. She and Lakshman have met once or twice. He attended her lecture at the Kessler Lecture (CLAGS – Center for LGBTQ Studies) at CUNY.  She was the Executive Director of the National Gay and Lesbian Task Force from 1989 to 1992.  Lakshman imagines her life as a queer South Asian woman who made her mark in the mainstream LGBTQ community back in the 1980’s and 1990’s. Race has been on her mind.  Her Kessler lecture, in 2011, was about race in the LGBTQ movements. Urvashi is such a strong figure in the mainstream LGBTQ movements. She is in a position of power that she has accumulated over decades of hard work, which is very inspirational.   00:46:05 Generally, the most inspiring people to Lakshman are women. They do the most work in the community.  Woman do all the movement work – the gay men just want to party! He has a family friend (a woman) running for the State Assembly in Michigan.  Pauline Park, is a transgender, Korean adoptee, activist, who lives in Queen.    00:47:39 Lakshman thinks that in the future, there should be more community institutions. People in the South Asian community need help from direct services across all fronts. Everyone needs more services. Lakshman is in the mind-set that what is needed are more community centers, more community spaces, and more affordable housing. It would also be good to have healthy assimilation and integration. Lakshman understands why people can be very insular (he is that way himself) but that is not always healthy.  Not everyone wants to be more integrated, but he believes more integration would behoove the community. It is happening somewhat with trailblazers like Urvashi.  00:49:40 Lakshman does not believe that this integration necessarily happens with the younger generation. Lakshman knows a number of South Asians, born and raised like him, who only talk to other South Asians.  This orientation will not disappear with the generation. Many families who left India in the 1800’s, lived in Guyana and came to Queens, still only marry Guyanans.  00:50:33 His hope for the community is that when people need help, they can get it. He hopes they can do better creating community institutions. He also hopes that Queens is saved from gentrification.  00:51:03 Queens is where it all happens. It is a social geography, physically it is all about Queens. Lakshman has put 60,000 miles on his car, in the last three years, driving in Queens.  Lakshman hopes Queens stays as it is. It is a great place to raise a family. He loves that the gay bar scene in Jackson Heights is entirely Latino.   00:52:08 Ideally, Lakshman hopes there would be more community spaces and community centers. But on the whole, there are a lot of great things happening in Queens. He would like to come back here to start a clinic or practice here. He was shadowing a doctor, who was an Indian immigrant, and all her patients were immigrants from different countries.  It was beautiful.   00:52:59 Lakshman has one hope that Queens could be a little more queer, with more community institutions and services in Eastern and Southern Queens. These areas often get the short end of the stick and that is not fair. It would be good if the roads could get a little better. As long as we remember all the places in Queens and strengthen them all with community institutions, Queens will be just fine. It is a great place.   00:53:45 Lakshman’s pipe dream for his medical career is to start a South Asian federally qualified health center. (There is not one yet.) He would like to do a private practice that does social services. He will do internal medicine and psychiatry because mental health and behavioral health are so intertwined. Mental health is on the top of the list of needs. When he gets older, he wants to build a house back in his family’s village in India and set up a practice.  00:54:58 Lakshman stated that in Queens, there is a narrative and history beyond each door (in this coop building for example), and this is just one building in Forest Hills. There are so many fascinating people here and it is so unassuming. This is different from Manhattan, where xyz lives here, and abc lives there, and they have accomplished so much.  Lakshman is very grateful that the Queens Memory Project is recording these oral histories and he will recommend more people.  Queens did not come out of nothing. People worked to build community institutions and neighborhoods. They are not perfect people, but their stories deserve to be remembered and celebrated.  00:56:23 The Queens Memory Project interview for Lakshman Kalasapudi ended at 4:01 PM. It was conducted at 67-71 Yellowstone Blvd., Forest Hills, New York on February 4, 2018.              