         Queens Memory Project    Submission Information Form  Interview for 30th Ave project: Md. Kamruzzaman  Date of interview: July 4 2011  Time period(s) discussed in interview: 2010-11   Name of interviewer: Annabel Short  Name of interviewee: Md. Kamruzzaman  Location where interview took place (specific address if possible): Under the elevated subway tracks at the intersection of 30th Ave and 31st Street (by 30th Ave subway station), Astoria  Places discussed in interview: Astoria, Jamaica  People discussed in interview:   Organizations discussed in interview:   Make and model of recorder used: Olympus Linear PCM Recorder LS-10  Language(s) used in interview: English  Additional Notes: any or all of the following information:  Length of time interviewee has lived in the neighborhood, Ethnic background, Occupation, Housing type (renting an apartment, owning a house, etc), Age of interviewer and/or age of interviewee, Particular involvements with neighborhood (church, civic involvement), Context for the interview (conducted for QMP, a class, personal project, etc)  Md. Kamruzzaman, originally from Bangladesh, lived for a while on the Northern Mariana Islands in the Pacific before coming to New York in November 2010.  He works as a taxi driver.  He talks about the challenge of getting to grips with the traffic system in New York and avoiding expensive tickets, e.g. for making a turn where you shouldn’t.  He recounts the story of a passenger who asked to be taken to the moon.  Context of the interview: “30th Ave – A Year in the Life of a Street” project (www.30thAve.org)  Transcript notes for research   I enjoy it because every day I met a different kind of people.  It’s interesting to meet the different types of people.   One time there was a really funny man.  He asked me “can you take me to the moon?”  And I was telling him “I don’t know how to get to the moon.” And he said “oh yeah I know how to get to the moon”.  I dropped him in a normal street.  I live in Queens.  I’m from Bangladesh.  New York I came last November.   I make money, though only to survive, not to save money.   The traffic is difficult.  The morning time, rush hour, it’s very hard, and to follow all the signs.  When you make a mistake you have to pay a ticket and when you have to pay the ticket it’s lots of money you need to pay.  You have to be really careful.  Especially parking tickets, sign tickets.  I have got parking tickets and also when you make a turn when you shouldn’t.  It’s a totally different system to the Northern Mariana Islands in the Pacific.  Their system was the same system, but the traffic was nothing like this.  So when I came here at first I really got a lot of tickets.    I left Bangladesh about 20 years ago.  I have family here, one son, who’s in school in Jamaica.   These are all friends here [the other taxi drivers], we know each other.  When we have problems we share them talking with each other.    I was driving only daytime but sometimes I work a little bit later.   