Queens Memory Project
Oral History Interview Timecode Outline
	
Neighborhood (if any):			Pomonok
Date of Interview: 			October 27, 2017
Time Period:				1972-2017
Interviewee Date of Birth:
Name of interviewee:			 Terry Katz
Name of interviewer:			 Jacqueline Colson
Length of interview:			 0 hr, 58 min, 40 sec
Name of editor: 				 M Alam
Editing software: 				 Adobe Soundbooth
Timecode Outline Preparer: 		 M Alam

Summary:	Terry Katz was born and raised in Pomonok Housing Project. His love and treasured memories of Pomonok inspired him to create a documentary named ‘Pomonok Dreams’. In order to create the documentary he interviewed 120 Pomonok residents about their childhood growing up during the 1950’s and 1960’s. 

00:00:30		Terry graduated high school in 1972. Terry notes that the hippie movement and the rise of environmentalism inspired him to be a geologist. However, he dropped out because he wasn’t familiar with the science that was required to be a geologist.

00:01:24		He went to Queens College for Communication Arts. After that, he went to New York Institute of Technology. Since then he has gotten involved in film making.

00:02:50		Terry had his own company for more than seven years called, ‘Pie Edit’. The company mostly did commercial editing. However, he had to terminate the company due to low profit margin.

00:04:46		Terry went back to college at New York University to obtain a Masters  in Media Theory.

00:05:35		Two weeks before graduating from NYU, Terry got an offer from Saint John’s University to teach an [video] editing class.

00:06:58	*	Terry talks about his documentary that he produced with Alan Stark, called ‘Pomonok Dreams’. Terry’s childhood friend, Alan, contacted him through Facebook to show his interest in the Pomonok Housing Project. The duo spent five years interviewing 120 Pomonok residents which resulted in an hour long documentary. People have given ‘Pomonok Dreams’ very positive feedback.

00:11:20*	Terry explains the pros of public housing back when he was growing up. He says, “It was built for the working class and it wasn’t built for welfare purposes, it was built to give people who honestly wanted to succeed in life.” When Terry’s father came back from World War II he had to live in the basement of Terry’s grandfather’s basement. However, Pomonok Housing gave Terry’s father the opportunity to get his own residence. He felt as if the government cared for him and his family. Race didn’t come into play with economics, which helped Pomonok assimilate better. No one felt out of place. 	

00:15:26		Terry recalls that it was much more different back when he was growing up. Neighbors were much closer and social. Children were always eager to go out and play with their neighborhood friends. However, with smartphones and technology he finds that this is no longer the case. 

00:21:17		Pomonok Dream’s first screening was in Chicago at the National Museum of Public Housing. Nicholas Bloom was the one who contacted the director of the museum.

00:22:10		Terry notes that even people in Chicago could relate to ‘Pomonok Dreams’. It made Terry realize that public housing was a positive experience for most people across the United States.

00:23:20		He says the documentary was mostly about what influenced his and Alan’s lives. Some viewers complained that ‘Pomonok Dreams’ only showed the positives and not the negatives about the Pomonok Housing Project. However, Terry explains that documentaries are always made from an unconscious bias. Documentaries are almost like a memoir. “It’s the way we remembered it”. 

00:26:17*	Terry goes onto describe the importance of the word ‘assimilation’. At the present days, people are not familiar with the importance of the word. When Terry was growing up in Pomonok everyone was an American. No one was left out. “Everyone was part of the same tribe.” However, Terry notes that in the present time people are too focused on nationalism that they forget about assimilation. He feels as if it’s one of the biggest issues we face today in terms of the acceptance of diversity.

00:30:36		Terry explains how much the world has changed since his childhood. He says that people are going to survival mode because of the many negative events happening around the world 
He states that history is an important part of human civilization.

00:35:05		He greatly voices his opinions against white-Americans that say that they are being discriminated against. He read an article that said 55% of white-Americans felt that way. Terry disagrees and says that it has always been easier for white-Americans. When Terry was growing up there was a saying, “Young, white, and free.” 

00:40:10		Terry talks about Robert Moses. Moses was very powerful public official who worked mainly to design the New York metropolitan area. Terry says Robert Moses is the reason that cars are the dominant means of transportation in New York City. New York tolls were owned by a private company that belonged to Robert. 
 
00:44:40		‘Pomonok Dreams’ made people realize that public housing is not what people make it ought to be, but rather something that can be beautiful.

00:47:30		Terry talks about John F. Kennedy’s assassination and the recent release of the documents related to his assassination in October 2017. He continues to talk about politics. 	

00:51:00		Terry notes that Americans are not as united as they used to be. Terry explains a problem with today’s society is that everyone is made out to be a winner. He talks negatively about participation trophies. 
		

00:57:00		He says that both males and females have their unique strengths. However, he doesn’t continue on because he notes that people tear down arguments when they don’t agree with something. 	


















 PAGE   \* MERGEFORMAT 3



Queens Library, Library Services Dept., Attn: Natalie Milbrodt, 89-11 Merrick Blvd. Jamaica, NY 11432
For More Information, Contact: Director, Natalie Milbrodt (Natalie.Milbrodt@queenslibrary.org)



