Queens Memory Project Oral History Interview Timecode Outline City: South Ozone Park Date of Interview: January 21st, 2014  Time Period: 2001-2014  Interviewee Date of Birth:  Name of interviewee: Kamaljit Kaur  Language of interviewee: Punjabi Name of interviewer: Naema Rahman  Name of Translator: Mohinder Purewal Length of interview: 28 min, 6 sec.  Name of editor: Nusaiba Ally  Editing software: Adobe Soundbooth CS5  Timecode Outline Preparer: Nusaiba Ally  Summary: Kamaljit Kaur moved to the US in 2001 from India after she married her husband. She has been residing in South Ozone Park since she moved from Junction Blvd. in Jacksons Heights. She lives with her three children and her husband in an apartment. She describes South Ozone Park as a very nice place to live with her neighbors having different cultures such as Guyanese and Bengali. She attends a temple nearby her home with her children and celebrates Indian holidays to keep her culture alive. She has learned English from interacting with her kids and neighbors. Kamaljit also talks about Indian festivals and other celebrations, as well as the caste system in India.  00:00:24: Kamaljit was born and raised in Punjab, India. She came to the United States in January, 2001. 00:01:06: She got married in India and her husband applied for her to come to the US. She first lived in Jackson Heights at Junction Blvd.  00:02:25: She describes Jackson Heights and says that it is just like India.  00:02:51: Kamaljit now lives in South Ozone Park, which she observes has many different kinds of people (Guyanese, Chinese, etc.). She sees no difference between Junction Blvd. and South Ozone Park.  00:04:50: She interacts with her neighbors in a bit of English and mostly Punjabi and Hindi. 00:05:55: She learned English in the US because in India, no one around her spoke English. In India, people now learn to speak English in schools. She uses Punjabi or Hindi when shopping at Indian stores and manages with English in other stores.  00:07:40: Kamaljit lists the Indian traditions that she has continued in America, such as Diwali and Karva Chauth. She celebrates some events at home and some at the temple.  00:09:25: The temple in South Ozone Park has a community that she can interact with, but she loves every religion. She visits many other places of worship even though she identifies as Hindu. 00:12:07: She describes the caste system in India. Hindus do not marry outside of their caste in India, but people do not practice that in America.  00:13:25: Her daughters go to the same school in South Ozone Park, where there are many different ethnicities. The girls speak Punjabi and English at home, which helped Kamaljit to learn English.  00:18:04: She tries to teach her daughters about certain aspects of their culture, such as the reasons for celebrating Diwali.  00:20:10: The Lori festival is a celebration for a new baby (boy or girl), where people set a little fire at add certain ingredients. Kamaljit has done this for all of her children. 00:22:10: She likes the community in South Ozone Park, as well as other areas, such as Astoria Park and the beach at Coney Island.  00:24:40: She talks about an Indian festival in a park and the Sikh parade in Manhattan around 42nd street and Broadway. Her children enjoy the Indian foods at these events. The festivals or melas tend to occur every three months.  