Queens Memory Project
Oral History interview 

City: 			Queens
Neighborhood: 	Jamaica, Long Island City and Parkway Village
Date of Interview: 	October 27, 2018
Time Period: 		1965-present
Name of interviewee:  June Kosloff
Name of interviewer: 	Sarah Hughes
Length of interview: 	45 minutes
Name of editor: 	N/A
Editing Software: 	N/A

Summary:	Local artist June Kosloff shares memories of growing up in Parkway Village, Queens during the 1960s and 70s. The daughter of first generation Queens’s immigrants shares thoughts on growing up in the progressive and diverse neighborhood. June’s parents had creative leanings which rubbed off on her growing up, where she attended art schools in the city and later attended SUNY Purchase. After working for years in the music industry, an unexpected turn of events put June onto a new path that ultimately helped her discover a passion for curating art and redefining her vision as an artist. She shares how she curated her uncle’s artwork at various museums and galleries in the country. June shares her optimism for the future of Queens and how the city has evolved over the years.

00:00:00		Test, test.

00:00:26		Can you just please state your name, birthday and a little intro to yourself.

00:00:26	Hi, my name is June Kosloff. I’m from Jamaica Queens. I was born on June 18th, 1965. And I grew up in Parkway Village in Jamaica Queens.

00:00:48	Can you go into a little bit into your early life growing up in Jamaica Parkway Village in the 60s with your family?

00:00:55	Sure. Where I grew up was actually a very diverse community for its time. It was created for the United Nations diplomats and their families. And I’ve read several articles recently about why. And it was partially because the United Nations diplomats couldn’t get apartments in Manhattan near the UN due to racism. Therefore, they created this community which was a village basically – a mile or so long – a few blocks wide. Garden apartments. Two story apartments. And my family, my parents, are both American born. Second, actually first-generation Eastern European Jews. All but one of my grandparents was born in another country. So my parents grew up in New York. My father grew up in Jamaica, about a mile from Parkway Village. And my mother grew up in the Bronx on the Grand Concourse. They had been living in Manhattan and they were looking... My sister is 8 years older than me and they were looking for a place to live that was kind of progressive. I guess they wanted to be around likeminded people. And Parkway Village really lent itself well to their needs as a couple with a growing family. So there were all these people from all over the world from diplomat families, as well as, New Yorkers that wanted to live in a different, welcoming environment. It was very social. They had kind of, less people had open houses and lots of different food. Some of my earliest friends as a little kid that remember were from places like Turkey and Cyprus and Lebanon and Syria and Japan. There were American families there as well. It was really a great time to be a kid as far as I’m concerned. We had an outdoor – because Queens is very urban in a lot of places. We had a village green which was a very social area right in the middle. It was kind of protected even though it was between the grand central parkway, Main Street, Parsons Boulevard, and Union Turnpike. Which if you go there today, it’s a whole different kind of a place. I really loved it. Then unfortunately, my mother died in 1978. So that kind of changed our living situation and so my father, when I was about 16, going into 11th grade, he decided to move the family which was my brother, myself and him to Great Neck. Just because things were changing. He thought the school system was better. And you know he wanted to have that for us. For me unfortunately, I was going to the High School for Art and Design in Manhattan, riding the subways, which was a completely different experience than it is today. If I had a kid, I’d never let them ride in the subways like I did.

00:04:47		So you saw things on the subway as a kid that you shouldn’t have seen?

00:04:50	Oh yeah. Oh yeah. It was really, the city was a whole other cup of tea in those days. Times Square was a red-light district. Long Island City was a   kind of no man’s land here. This station here, 23rd street and Ely Avenue. When I was in high school, there was a subway slasher at the station here. So I grew up being afraid of 23rd Street, Ely Avenue which is now Court Square. Because that was the subway that I took to school every day when I went to High School of Art and Design. So, yeah. It’s funny because in Long Island City, around my artists, I feel like I’m one of the only New Yorkers that actually… there are a few of us here that have seen things, go through this huge evolution. So it’s really quite something. [7 seconds deleted between 00:06:48 and 00:05:55 to keep political remarks confidential - N.M.]

00:05:49	So if we go back to your parents, what did they do for a living? In relation to the community, did they have opinions on the area? Did they have thoughts on living during that time period?

00:06:04	So my father was a manager of NY State Department of Labor, unemployment offices all over the city. So basically, when people lost their jobs, they’d go to the unemployment offices and they’d wait in these huge lines. He managed those offices, was a civil servant, and has a master’s degree in counseling. Before that, he had aspired to be a playwright. He had studied English and he went to Columbia after the war. He had continued writing probably ‘til at least I was born. And then the family life took over, he had this really good job for the state and my mother was a dressmaker. My mother’s mother owned a dress shop in the Bronx called Anna’s dresses. So my mother knew how to make clothing. And kind of had a side business where she would make clothing for a lot of people in the neighborhood. So it was kind of more of a side hustle. But she made me a lot of clothes. I was a very big tomboy and I didn’t want to wear any of the dresses that she made because I was too busy running around playing Ringolevio or baseball or football. But now I go, wow that would have been really fun to learn how to make dresses with my mom. So they definitely enjoyed the neighborhood and being around this diverse community. Especially for having both of them live through World War II and watching what hate and the other. And hating the other really means. So they were very open minded.

00:08:04		Did they talk about the war?

00:08:08	No. Every family is different. And people, again in my family there was such a bad thing going on. They didn’t want to talk about anything unnecessarily bad. And my father is still alive and I’ve been interviewing him, videotaping him talking about his life. So I know a lot about his experiences during the war.  Funny enough, my father’s mother was a business woman and she had a factory here in Long Island City, a shoe factory in the 1940s until ’43 or ‘44, which was called Supreme Manufacturing Shoe Company Incorporated. And the building is still here in Dutch Kills. I actually just went to see it the other day. That makes me feel good that I had a grandmother who was ahead of her time. And what a great thing, what a great name for a company. And my mother had a lot of friends in the neighborhood, in Parkway Village and was well liked by people in general. We belonged to the food co-op so we ate all-natural food all the time. And I hated every minute of it. But now, I go, wow…

00:09:29		They were way ahead of their time 

00:09:33	So when you talk to your father know, does he reminisce about how things were and the progression of this area?

00:09:41	Yeah. I take him here occasionally. My father dropped me off last weekend. And we drove up Central Boulevard and around and then we went to the shoe factory location. And, he was like wow I don’t even recognize this, this is another place. He’s been coming to the studio and shows I do over the years so he’s seen it. But this year, in particular, it’s really turned a corner. And all the new buildings. It’s like Long Island City has become another place. 

00:10:16		For the better or worse?

00:10:17	 [23 seconds of this section from 00:10:34 to 00:10:57 were removed to keep political remarks confidential – N.M.] I have to say that I’m enjoying the neighborhood. I like being around all different kinds of people, whether they are tourists or live here. I like food. So I like restaurants and coffee shops. And we happen to have a lot of independent shops here in Long Island City which is really nice, which is a plus for independent business owners. It can be seen as something that is a good thing for them. And as an artist, then there will be more people coming to the open studios and seeing the shows. [36 seconds from 00:11:39 to 00:12:15 were removed to keep political remarks confidential – N.M.] It’s been amazing. There are a lot of things going on all at the same time. 

00:11:05	Going back to your early life, growing up with your siblings in the area, what kind of activities did you do in the area?

00:11:15	Growing up in Parkway Village, it was super fun. I remember having different groups of kids and we would go play big games of baseball in the Village Green. We would play Johnny Rides a Pony. Nobodies every heard of that game. Kind of rough.

00:11:36		What is that?

00:11:38	So you’d separate into two teams, maybe we had six people in each team. The biggest person would hug the tree and everyone else would hug the waist of the person in front of them. Then the other team would jump on you until you fell down. So you were essentially the pony until you fell down like everyone jumped on you. I had a bagel club for a while when every day we ate a bagel for 5 or 10 cents each. They were great. We played Ringolevio throughout the neighborhood. I can’t really remember how that goes. But there are two teams and it’s almost like a hide and seek game. We played a lot of Dodgeball, I played basketball, I rode my skateboard. We had one phone in the house and you had to share it. I don’t know how anyone did anything. But we did. We had friends. I went to a progressive school called the Queens School in Forest Hills. That was a very diverse school with all kinds of people from all over the world. And there were classes together like first and second grade were together, third and fourth. And then by fourth grade I asked to go to the public schools because all my friends were going. And we walked to school every day. Which was a long walk. And if I had kids, because I don’t have kids, I would never let them do that at the age of 11.

00:13:16		How long was the walk?

00:13:18	It must have a least been a mile. I went from Parkway Village to Briarwood, along Main Street. I mean we always walked in double or triple amount of kids. But still. It was pretty far. And there were a lot of weird things going on. And like now, when something happens in a neighborhood and it’s right away on the news. There is a camera. But then, things were happening and people didn’t know. Unfortunately, there was a lot of crime that never reported. Not that Queens was unsafe, but it was different times all over. There was gang warfare. But my neighborhood was really nice. And it was middle class. Pretty much, if you played in the neighborhood your parents would feel my kids are safe.

00:14:22	When you were growing up did you know you wanted to be an artist? Or had creative leanings?

00:14:31	Yeah. When I was a kid I really enjoyed drawing. I’m a thinker. I was an introvert as a kid. Now I like to talk a lot more. I learned how to draw when I was 8 or 10. My uncle who taught me how to draw someone’s face with a formula;This is how to do it. Then I got into comic books. I was drawing Snoopy and the Peanuts gang. And emulating others. I knew this was something that I liked and was good at. Then when I was in Junior High School I played the trumpet. I really love the trumpet. My father was not happy about Hillcrest High School. Which was the local high school I would have went to. He was like, “You need to go to another school. Try for Stuyvesant or Bronx Science.” But I was like, I want to go to Art and Design or Music and Art. Because I knew I wanted to do some art. And my mother was very artistic and would paint weird things on the wall. She did a sun and zig zags and everything matched and it was very 70s yellow. I got a little portfolio together and I got into Art and Design. And I don’t think I even applied to the other schools. But school came pretty easy to me in those days. I don’t remember studying for anything. The High School of Art and Design which now moved, was on 57th and 2nd was a wild place in 1980. 

00:16:22		What would go on that was wild?

00:16:25		I don’t know if I want to say on tape. 

00:16:26		Ok.

00:16:27	Things happened that would never happen today in high schools around the country. It wasn’t violent. It was more things people were doing like substance abuse. It was very different and you could get away with a lot more on school premises. I was a pretty good kid. I did well. And then we moved to Great Neck. So I left my artistic high school unfortunately. And moving in the middle of high school is not what any high school kid wants to do. So I applied for a few New York State colleges, SUNY Purchase being one of them because I know they had Art. And so I was not a full BA of Fine Arts major. I did have the opportunity to take a lot of art classes as a social sciences slash visual arts major. So I did photography and other art classes. And also did sociology which was good for me to learn how to write a little bit. Not that I still know how to write. It was a liberal arts education. But being around the arts, SUNY Purchase was amazing. I was surrounded by conservatory musicians, and actors and dancers and filmmakers. 

00:17:54	But because it was outside of the city proper, was a culture shock moving away from the area.

00:18:02	A little bit. But I had a car. And we just went into the city and go to danceteria. I did an internship at a small video production company in my junior or senior year. It was accessible. It was about an hour ride in a car and the same on the train.

00:18:38		Did you have any mentors at SUNY Purchase? That guided your career?

00:18:47	Kind of, sort of. I had a couple of professors that were really good teachers. I can’t say, I didn’t have a mentor. I wish I had one. I did a lot of photography so I had a couple teachers that taught me a lot about photography. And I was in the dark room, printing, black and white, 35 mm. And I was working at the radio station on campus. So I knew a lot of people through that. It was a different time for me personally. I can look back and go, “I should have done it different.” But I did some interesting things and I ran the radio station for a while. And that was fun and interesting experience. And then I just did the last few years doing school and work. But it was great being around all that art and music. I went to the theatre. And the filmmakers that came out of SUNY Purchase. Lots of great actors, dancers, visual arts, you name it. It was a great place to go to undergraduate. I’m very proud of it.

00:20:16		What year did you graduate?

00:20:17		1987.

00:20:18	By the time you graduated, did you have an idea of what you wanted to do career wise at that point.

00:20:26	I knew that I wanted to, well my goal when I graduated college was to become a page at NBC and then go into production and TV. And somehow wind up making music videos or something like that, TV stuff. I wasn’t exactly pin point but I knew I wanted to go in that door. Unfortunately, three weeks after I graduated they stopped the page program at NBC. I had to take a different route. I come from this middle class family, so I had to get a job. So I did wind up going to work for an advertising agency, which I hated. 

00:21:17		Which agency?

00:21:19	It was called the Howard Marlboro Group. I was making promotional items like hats, t-shirts, and buttons for Clinique and Exxon. It was part of Saatchi & Saatchi. Which is a big agency still.  I was there for a year or so. Then I got a job at a TV station called, Financial News Network for a couple of months. Which I think is now CNBC. I was in ad sales. I wasn’t crazy about this whole ad sales thing. I was an assistant to sales people. Looking back, in retrospect, it’s interesting sometimes because I look back and they didn’t want me to leave because I got a job at USA networks. Because I thought I was going to get into TV, I’m going to get into production because I love that. It was different. You couldn’t pick up your iPhone and make a movie. You had to have resources. And I didn’t know, I would have been happy doing a production assistant job for a few years and making a living that way. But I thought if I get to USA network, I’ll get in and do that. But I was still in sales. Financial News Network didn’t want me to leave. So I was like, no I’m going to go to this sexy place. So I went to USA network. It was the same thing, different company. So then I was like nah. And then I tried to get into production and it didn’t happen. [28 seconds of this section from 00:24:15 to 00:24:43 were removed for personal information privacy NM] At the end of December 1990, I went on this interview to Charisma Records. And I got a job there. But I’d been pounding the pavement. I’d gone to 92 K-Rock as an ad sales coordinator job. All kinds of jobs. I was going to Atlanta Records. I was interviewing everywhere. People were like, “you’ll never do it, you’ll never work at a record label.” So then I got this job at record label and went ha! I was wearing jeans to work. I was going to rock and roll shows. I had a million CDs given to me all the time. I was in a candy store.
 00:23:41		So was your official title? What were you doing at the company?

00:23:43	So I did several things. Charisma records became Virgin Records because Richard Branson who owned Virgin Records the label sold it. He owned both companies. So we became one in 1991 when I started they merged. So I was able to go from sales assistant to like a marketing coordinator job. Then I was on my own.  My territory was independent record stores East of the Mississipi so I was calling them on the phone, doing promotion, working the tours, talking to people every day. That was my job. Working with the distribution company who goes and sells the CDs. I moved up. I became marketing manager, then regional sales manager. And then the whole thing fell apart in 2002. About 1,300 people lost their jobs in a layoff by EMI. By then it was owned by EMI, Virgin. It was an amazing time. I can’t say I became a millionaire working there. But I had some perks. I got to work with great artists. Ben Harper was one of my favorites. I had a personal relationship with him by the time he put out his first CD, Welcome to the Cruel World to you know when I left. The Verve. Cracker. Sneaker Pimps. We worked big artists like Janet Jackson, David Bowie, and Smashing Pumpkins. You name it. We had John Lee Hooker. We a blues arm of the company. It was a learning experience about the music business. Now it’s a whole different thing. I learned about music in general. And I hear it. Or I don’t. It was a great time, I have a lot of friends from that time.

00:26:12	Based on what happened, with Napster, the internet. Do you have any thoughts about the thoughts on future of music distribution?

00:26:25	No. (Laughs) That is a good question. I don’t know what the business model is now. The way I see it, it’s about the artist and going on tour. Music is free now. You pay a service and I hope the artist is paid. I don’t keep up with it. While I was in the music business, that I did for myself, which I was compelled to do, was to go and make art. So in the 90s, like 1994, I started going to the Arts Student League, regularly. So I studied with a teacher there, I went every week, I was a monitor. And I got some skills and techniques. Then I took other classes over the years. By the time I lost my job in 2002, I thought I was going to get my MFA in Fine Art. But for various reasons, it didn’t happen that way. I took that as, it’s not supposed to happen. I feel as artists, we have a lot of resources at our fingertips. If you want to make, you can do things a lot of different ways. I feel grateful that I have this space here that’s affordable to me. And I’m part of a community that has resources and opportunities to show. 

00:28:11		What year did you come to this studio? Or did you have other studios?

00:28:18	I had other studios before this. Another thing that happened between all of this, my mother’s brother died in April of 2001 about 6 months before I lost my job at Virgin Records. So he was the last relative of my mothers. So I took care of his stuff. I knew he was an artist, he showed me how to draw, gave me my first camera. He was a visionary artist. He had made these beautiful works of art and I started to find it. He was a hoarder. I’m sorry Dick. His name was Uncle Dick. Richard Lubinsky. He was really an amazing artist. I realized that this was an opportunity to do something with it. Because the work was stunning. Everyone I showed it to was like, “Wow!”. Local Project and the first space that they had, I met them in 2003 through someone I met at the Arts Student League. I had a show in 2004 with my uncle’s work.   I curated for the first time, this collection of my uncle, Dick Lubinsky at Local Project, where I am a Board Member. This was a turning point for me in my life in general and in my career. I don’t need to ask anyone any questions, I just do it. After I had that show, I had one more music job at at RCA and that ended. And I realized that this was not a viable option for me anymore. In the meantime, I wanted to show the Lubinsky more. I found this gallery called Fountain Gallery. Which is part of Fountain House in Manhattan which is a gallery for artist that live and work with their mental illness. And my uncle went to Fountain House in the late 60s. They allowed me to do a show there. Long story. So 2004 Local Project was the first show of my uncles work, the second was in 2006 at Fountain House Gallery of my uncle’s work. And I showed it at a few museums. All while I was still making artwork of my own. My uncle’s work has been showed at the American Visionary Museum, then the Erie Art Museum. So in 2009 it was American Visionary, 2010 Erie Art Museum. So it was pretty fantastic. I looked at his work as like a CD or record, but just visual art. He’s my Rockstar. I’m going to show his work. The good thing is that the work speaks for itself. It has a life of its own, like any good art. Art that is successful let’s say. So then by 2009 when my uncle’s work was up at the American Visionary museum, I was making art more, going to the Arts Students League. I started working on a specific series of work and I realized that I’m going to do my own show. I’m going to apply to Local Project and see if I can do a solo show. And so they allowed me to do a solo show in June of 2010. That again was another turning point for me, here in Queens. It all comes back to Queens. I enjoy that very much. It was the first time I’d ever sold work. I sold 4 pieces at that show on opening night and I was tremendously excited. “Wow, this is amazing.” And it’s not like it was a lot of money but the idea that someone wants to buy something and have a piece of you, in a way. And since 2010 I joined Local Project as part of the board. I ran some programming. I ran this music series for a few years called Music Under the 7. And tried to up my game here. Keep my work going. Keep evolving as an artist. My work is very different from my uncle’s.

00:33:16		I was going to ask what your work is exactly, how you interpret it?

00:33:20	So my work has changed over the years. What I’m doing now is, doing a different series of animals. I’ve been taking pictures for years. I love digital photography, I mean film is beautiful, but wow it’s not good for our wallets as much as digital. And there is also a lot more freedom. So everywhere I go, I use my camera phone. But I have a nice digital Nikon and I’ve been taking lots of pictures. I went to a lot of farms this year, went to the Catskills Animal Sanctuary. I went to the beach. I take pictures of farm animals. This year it’s mostly roosters and chickens from the farms. But they are not just roosters or chickens, they are symbols of us as human beings. They are really great with a lot of personality. They are really smart. You know they are funny. And I enjoy making them. I’ve done a lot of paintings and drawings of roosters and chickens from these farms, because I took a lot of pictures. I also did a self-portrait this year. It was really about my childhood and surviving. I guess we all have, I call them mechanisms of survival, like when bad things happen to you in life, what is it that I do? It’s just a question. I asked myself this question. And so I did this piece of me on a skateboard. I have a photo of myself on my skateboard, I think it was the year after my mother died. And I was like wow, I’m out there on a skateboard, but I’m like living my life. That was what I did. I just went forward on my skateboard. And I think as an adult, that person is part of me, and you know, came full circle. As life happens, I think of that part of me. And then who I am today. And I made this self-portrait, that is just the beginning of it, but I have the other one, not in my studio, it’s bigger. That was really good for me to make. Fun is a relative term. But it was an important piece for me to make. So I’ve had a very productive year this year, making art. Then I did a wall mural of a laughing gull that I took a photo of in July on the beach.

00:36:58		Which beach?

00:36:49	I went to the Rockaways. I went to Jamaica Bay Wildlife Refuge and then I visited a friend on the beach. Some days you have a good day. Sometimes you have a bad day. I had a good day with my camera. The wave was right there, the gull was flying perfect in the middle of a wave. And it was just spot on. So I took that and I made a wall mural. A friend of mine said oh yeah, you can come do this, no problem. The owner was fine with it. It was using outdoor, exterior paint. Not spray paint. It was really fun for me. I really enjoyed it. I felt like I want to do more of this. It’s exhilarating to make a mural. It was very hard, but I like the challenge. So that’s what I’ve been up to this year.

00:38:03	How do you balance your work life with art life? [7 seconds in this section from 00:39:55 to 00:40:02 were deleted for job confidentiality. –N.M.]

00:38:09	It’s a balancing act. I guess what I try to do, is be aware that it’s a balancing act. And I make sure that I take care of myself really well in order to give the best that I can to my job. I’m appreciative to have this job. I’m an admin in media telecom. It’s one of the hottest sections of banking I would say. [16 seconds in this section were deleted between 00:40:24 and 00:40:40 for job confidentiality N.M.] Because everything is about media and telecom. If the satellites go down, we go down, right? I’m happy to be there. I feel like they appreciate someone who is different, who is an artist. [23 seconds of this section were deleted between 00:42:01 and 00:41:24 for job confidentiality NM] Anyways, I do self-care. I sleep enough. I go to the gym. I eat well. I’m not a big partier. That keeps me focused I think. Sometimes it’s easier than others. Some things fall through the cracks. But I enjoy the challenge. I feel like it’s really different for me, like I know I’m working hard. But I’m working hard for myself. [21 seconds in this section were deleted between 00:42:00 and 00:42:21 for job confidentiality - N.M.] I’m living this life and I wouldn’t have it any other way. I really enjoy what I do. 

00:39:42	To close, do you have thoughts on Queens in general. Growing up in the area…We’ve talked about a shift in the culture. And things have changed. Is there anything else you want to add about Queens before we close? As an artist? As a professional?

00:40:10	I’ve always been proud that I’ve grown up in Queens. That I am New Yorker that has seen all these different changes. That I’ve experienced it. And today, I feel the same way. I think I appreciate it more. I appreciate the expansiveness, not only physically. Like going to the Rockaways, that’s Queens. Jamaica Bay Wildlife.  It’s huge. Exploring in a different way. The different areas. Culturally, it’s so diverse. It’s become even more diverse than when I was a kid. Like where I grew up is a microcosm of what Queens has become. I’m really proud of being a Queens New Yorker. Also being a second generation American. That makes me feel good. And I also think Queens is being looked at from a lot of different angles, from a lot of people all over the world as this melting pot that is successful. I think that is really an interesting way to look at it.

00:41:35		Thank you very much. This is Sarah Hughes October 27th at 3:30pm.
