1964-1965 Worlds Fair 
Oral History Interview Timecode Outline
City: 
Neighborhood (if any): Flushing, Flushing Meadow Corona Park, Corona 
Date of Interview: 4/25/15
Time Period:  1960-2015
Interviewee Date of Birth: 
Name of interviewee: Jon Kriskiewicz
Name of interviewer: Daniel Hawthorne  
Length of interview: 00:37:58
Name of editor: 
Editing software: Adobe Soundbooth
Timecode Outline Preparer: Baksha Ali
Summary:  John Kriskiewicz spoke about what it was like attending the 1964-1965 world’s fairs as a child. He gave details about the fair and what sort of things it had to offer. Furthermore, Mr. Kris explains the history of the world’s fair and how it was a way for the ordinary people to view different countries and places at that time. He also talked about Robert Moses; the president of the fair, and his motive for constructing a small amount of buildings in the World Fair. Furthermore, he explained how the fair inspired him to become an architect and how it had opened his world; due to being enveloped by people with different backgrounds and cultures.   

00:00:12	he was five years old when he first attended the world fair. He was really excited and thought it was unlike any other place he has seen before. 

00:00:57	as a child, he was really impressed with the technology exhibit such as: the hall of science and the rocket park. He was also impressed with the automotive exhibits such as; Ford. Additionally, there were African dancers in the international pavilion. The fair had something for people of all ages.  

00:02:50	the Unisphere was in the center of the fair. People were in awe when they first saw the exhibit. 

00:03:54	critics were upset about how people would experience Michelangelo’s master piece because the people would have to stand on moving side walk to try to get a glimpse of it. The piece was enclosed in a bullet proof glass because they were afraid that something might happen to it. 

00:05:00	the other states that were part of the fair were well represented. Since the average people in New York did not travel as much at that time; the fair was a way for them to visit other countries and state. For instance, West Virginia had glass wielding demonstration and Oregon had log rollers in the fair. 

00:06:13	A lot of the international pavilion also offered food venues.   

00:06:47	Queens, New York in the mid 60’s consisted of essentially white, middle class, and second generation immigrant. Thus, the journey to the world fair broadens his horizon and introduced him to many new immigrants. For example, his mother had to explain why some of the women in the subway were wearing saris since he had never seen such attires before. 

00:09:04	He believes that Flushing Meadow Park was meant for the world fair ground. As a result, he considers that the park feels eerie when it is empty in our time. Primarily, because the excitement of the world fair is no longer there. However, there is still a sense of happiness at the park during the summer time when it is filled with people.   

00:10:10	Flushing Meadows Corona Park was created for the 1939 world’s fair. It also served as the home of the United Nations while they were waiting for their headquarters to be completed in Manhattan. 

00:11:29	The world of 1967 was completely different from the world of 1964. There was more crime and we were in the midst of the Vietnam War. Also, the park was declining in the 70’s and there was no money to maintain it. 

00:12:54	Money began to be used to maintain and refurbish the park in the mid 80’s. Moreover, people started to appreciate the past more. For instance, the unisphere was declared as New York City land mark in 1980. The New York state pavilion also became an official New York City land mark a few years ago.

00:14:20	thinks that iconic things such as; the unisphere and the New York State Pavilion should stay the same physically, but they can be used for different purpose. For example, the New York state pavilion can be used as a place where concerts, exhibits, or festivals can be held.

00:16:00	Companies such as, Ford and General Motors were well represented at the fair because the fair was celebrating a consumer world. 

00:18:49	He was a curious child, so his mother would take him to museum sometimes to satisfy his need for knowledge; he was really interested in buildings and cities. For that reason, attending the world fair was a natural transition. He found the fair to be visually stimulating and was inspired to become an architect. 

00:20:36	The 1964-1965 world fair was called the lazy fair, because Moses allowed the people to do whatever they wanted.  His idea was for the fair corporation to build the least amount of things because the fair was a devise to create the 20th century central park. Therefore, he was really happy when the U.S. Steele company wanted to sponsor the unisphere. 

00:25:27	The fair might not have been important to the elites at that time. However, it was a happy memory for middle class children. 

00:32:19	The fair provided an escape for people. The world was becoming complex and the news was usually not good. 
00:34:40	There are still world fairs, but they have been replaced by televisions and the internet. It would be great if the world’s fair would show the latest technology and architectural designs. Moreover, address such as climate change in a way that is entertaining.  


