 Transcript notes for research  My name is Peter Loupakis and for the last thirty years now I have been teaching and instructing karate and gymnastics and acrobatics.  My father [Tony] started teaching us when we were babies; I was one and a half years old.  And my brother [Harry] was three at that time.  And we continued ever since.    I was born in Greece.  We moved here when I was five and he was seven.  By then we had already started doing tours as a group.  We’re called the Trio Loupakis. We’ve been very successful, yes, all these trophies and first place awards.  My father was first a champion wrestler in Greece.  Then he turned that into acrobatics, and from that when we came to the states we opened up a karate school so that we could offer teaching in martial arts and acrobatic gymnastics.   I would say it’s not so unusual any more [to have a Greek family in martial arts] but yet it’s an odd combination; and furthermore to have martial arts and the acrobatic gymnastics in one space.  Normally they don’t work well together.  But they should I think.  They complement each other, you need similar skills.    We teach all ages.   I’d like to say its fun for anyone.  Anyone can learn it just takes time, the ability is there.  It’s a question of taking the course and time to learn to do it.  Some people learn fast and you know they are naturals, some people take longer.  But as long as you keep trying you will get it, that’s true.   We are going in November to a regional competition and we came back from Las Vegas in July where we won two first places; one for a karate-based routine/demonstration and one for acrobatic gymnastics.    It’s not a question of preference any more, whether I prefer performing or teaching.  It’s just what I do.  I perform, I compete, I teach, this is it.    Martial arts fundamentally was for the practice of war.  Over time and the generations we’ve turned it more into a philosophical…and now it’s more of an exercise program, kind of like Thai Bo but a little more into the strict rules of sparing and actual contact with your opponent, not just hitting the air.  You get physical in the martial arts.  That’s the difference from the aerobics, kickboxing, things like that.    With the introduction of what is now the MMA [Mixed Martial Arts].  This is something that my father was doing a long time ago because he used to wrestle.  So learning the karate, just one enhanced the other.  We’ve fused them all.  I like to say we take the best of each of them because over the course of the years, teachers come to our gym, and they were teachers that were teaching Kung Fu, Shotokan, Goju, different styles of martial arts.  So we’ve gleaned a little bit of the pie from everyone.  We set up here in 1973.  Before it was a dance studio.  We got very lucky.  The space was as-is except we have expanded at the back to have more space.   When we started we were 80% Greek attendees.  Now that’s changed and we’re lucky if we’re 10% Greek.  And then it’s just a whole mix of different…for example a Polish couple came in and brought their child.  They go to a Polish school around the area so they then tell all their friends and suddenly we have an influx of Polish people because of that.  And the same with other ethnicities, you know, and they each tell their friends.  The classes are pretty mixed.  We’re open to everyone of course.  It’s funny how it shifts around.   I’m not here all day.  That’s one of the beauties of the job.  We’re only after school hours.  So that limits the amount of time.  Teaching is a hard…you know, especially teaching children…it can be a little bit, how you say…taxing is the word.  But it’s fun, and it’s never the same day at the office, ever.  Never the same day.  That’s one plus, keeping it exciting and keeping it fun.   Outside the gym, I work as a physical education teacher as well, in the day time.    And two students who have been with us for over 13 years they started when they were five years old they still come now.  And their children come.  I like to call them grandkids.  I have like 8 or 9 grandkids now that come back.  Students that bring their own children.  I have two daughters.  They are 17 and 15.  And they are not as much into it now as before, it’s those hard teenage years.  But when they were younger they were in it all the time.  And in fact this Saturday they did a show with us near Madison Square Garden at the Pennsylvania Hotel which was a martial arts exhibition.  We received a high honors award for one of the better demonstrations of the day.  And it’s going to be in black belt magazine I believe next month.     I don’t see [challenges with having a family business]…With my father I don’t know, we kind of adhered in a way that it’s, I mean I call him Tony I don’t call him Dad at work, you know, it’s different.  For some people I don’t know if they could do it.  I find it very pleasant.  To walk in and say hello to my Dad and kiss him hello every time.   Plus it helps our business because they see that its family owned and that we care and everyone’s involved, not just one person sitting behind a desk.    One of the great things about my father is he’s 77 years old now, but he’s inside the gym every day, he’s teaching classes, he’s not just the one in the office signing people up.  He’s actually active and in there, and he was in the demonstration with us on Saturday, he’s going to be in the demonstration with us next week, Saturday, when we have people in Athens Square.  We go on at 2pm.   [Note: as mentioned in the write-up of this interview on the 30http://www.30thave.org/2011/10/23/peter-loupakis-loupakis-karate-acrobatics, Harry was tragically killed in a car accident in 2009: his death was not covered in the recorded interview] th Ave website 