Queens Memory Project
Oral History Interview Timecode Outline
City: Jackson Heights, Queens NY
Neighborhood (if any):
Interviewer: Fran Kidness 
Interviewee: Michael Mallon
Interview Date: December 6, 2018
Interviewee’s Date of Birth: March 17, 1982
Length of Interview: 52 min 8 sec
Editing Software:
Timecode Outline Preparer: Toby Ahn
Summary: In this interview, Michael spoke how he grew up in Brooklyn and lived in Queens for a long time. He spoke about how his life was influenced by the people around him and how the LGBTQ community made a huge impact on his life. He also spoke about how society thinks about LGBTQ community and how he thinks everyone should be treated equally. He also spoke about political campaigns and issues that also relates to the LGBTQ community.  

00:00:37	Michael was born in Brooklyn, NY in March 17, 1982 in Long Island College Hospital. The hospital currently no longer exists. It is next to famous restaurant, Junos, in downtown Brooklyn.
00:00:54	Michael was raised in Brooklyn near Greenwoods cemetery which is between Sunset Park and Park Slope. He lived with his parents and grandmother until late 2005. 
00:01:14	Michael went to PS 172 for elementary school. The school was one of most diverse schools in Brooklyn and was a high performance school. He went to M.S. 51 in Park Slope. He went to telecommunication High School, which was a small school. Then he went to Brooklyn College.
00:01:52	Michael moved to Queens in October 2005. Michael and his partner at that time had a very serious relationship so they decided to move in together. 
00:02:12	the reason why Michael decided to live in Queens was to find a neighborhood that accepted LGBTQ. His friend before kept recommending him Astoria. So Michael and his partner visited there, they ate lunch in the area, walked around, and they both really comfortable there. It was sort of a mix when it came to sexual identity, but they still felt safe in that area. Now, Michael and his partner live in Jackson Heights and they like how it is so diverse. 
00:03:53	the apartment had only 1 bedroom, comforting, and affordable with their budget during 2005. The neighborhood was filled with more Brazilian, Egyptian, Western European culture that was moving into the neighborhood around the year of 2000s. There were more Columbian before, but not as much now. There aren’t as much Brazilian as well like the Columbian. The Egyptian is still going strong in the neighborhood. To summarize, there has been less diversity in the neighborhood cause of gentrification. 
00:05:23	Michael lived in Astoria from 2005 till the late April of 2013. 
00:06:06	when Michael moved in, most people from the LGBTQ wanted to protect from hate crime, and tolerance. People from the LGBTQ wanted to live in area where they aren’t discriminated against in society. In 2005, in terms of marriage for LGBTQ, it became a serious issue for people because everyone wanted to be in a safe environment which made people attack people from the LGBTQ. The community of LGBTQ was expanding more back then compared to the present time because of gentrification. 
00:09:37	Michael broke up with his partner when he moved out Queens in 2013, however, he is still very good friends with him. When he moved out, he was sort of nomadic; he was staying with friends and family in Brooklyn. Eventually, Michael met with his love of his life, which is his fiancé right now. They moved into lower Manhattan, which is his fiancé place. He lived in the outside street from few years in Fulton Street. Around 4 weeks ago, Michael was in Fulton Park Slope and few days later, he and his fiancé got a place in 2nd Street.
00:11:08	when Michael moved into Queens, he wanted to move to place that accepted gay people, so he searched up gay people in Astoria, Queens and he saw a lot of people in the internet. He saw one of his closest friends, Derek McCaw, which is also an activist in Queens Politics. He had a group called, Outer Astoria, which is a social group for LGBTQ. Michael and his partner, at the time, met with some of the members in the group and they were introducing themselves in one of the group meetings. They went into one of the organizing meeting and that’s when Michael was starting to become an activist as well. Michael then continues to go to rallies, help out parades, and went to Queens’s prides. 
00:17:57	the year after he became a volunteer, he became the secretary for the organization in 2008-2009. He helped out with the activities they had done still when he was like a volunteer the year before. Michael enjoyed meeting many activists in the borough from the marriage equality group and Queens’s pride. 
00:21:52	Michael believed the parade is important for many reason. One reason would be visibility because it allows the LGBTQ community to be visible and known for other people in 37th Avenue, where it is the busiest commercial corridor in the area. Another reason would be to remind people to know that there are LGBTQ people everywhere and that they are not alone. Long time ago, when Michael didn’t join the LGBTQ community, there were a small handful of people in the community, but now, the community has grown a lot.  
00:24:34	Michael came into the democratic club and became the leader of it cause of his connection with some of the council members and with support of the LGBTQ community. He went to some of the events that were in the club like canvases and fundraisers. When he showed some kind of commitment to the club, they invited him to join the board to become the fundraiser coach with Kenneth Newguy, who is currently in the board now still. 
00:27:15	Michael also started to help out with the campaigns, endorsement, inviting the activists who were interested in the club. 
00:27:53	Michael became the president of the club in 2012. Michael wanted to focus on diversity, because he wanted the club to reflect as Queens so that people would be comfortable on whom they really are. 
00:29:35	the club was really highly respected and well-known in Queens at the time. However, outside of Queens, people didn’t know about the club as much since it wasn’t really well-known to the club. The club had really great members who were really committed to the club and they always came to the events and campaigns.
00:32:20	when Michael met with Councilman Dromm through a fundraiser and he got to know his work through Queens’s Pride. He knew what he stood for and Michael tries to help him out a lot with his campaigns. He helped him out when Councilman Dromm went against a councilwoman Helen Sears who was in office for many years. 
00:36:34	when Councilman Dromm won, Michael applied to work for him. He was really grateful of him that he hired him. Michael helped him out planning his schedule for him in 2010. 
00:37:10	Michael wanted to be a communication director since he was studying and working on how to do that. When the job was opened, he took the job and he was the communication director for about 3 years. He handles media advisory, writing press releases, holding press conferences, and providing answers when the media asks questions. 
00:41:19	a huge issues that is happening in the city is immigration. The community has the largest immigration rate in the whole city and most of the people in the community are undocumented because it became more difficult to become a citizen than before. Another issue is Housing because of gentrification that is happening in the city. People can’t pay their rents, trying to force people out, and have a hard time to find people jobs. 
00:49:32	Michael hopes that in social movements, everyone needs to work together to create change and we need to also care for your community and not try to isolate for each other.         
     
