Peter Mari

Survey Professional Writing

Professor Hirshon

14 October 2018


Queens Memory Program Interview: Dianne Martin


Peter: Ladies and Gentlemen, boys and girls, my name is Peter Mari.  I am here in Long Island City, Queens, NY on October 12th, Friday 2018.  I am sitting here with Dianne Martin from Long Island City, Queens and we are about to conduct a Queens Memory Program Interview for my assignment.  
Peter: Dianne, tell me about growing up in Queens.  
Dianne: Well I didn’t grow up in Queens.  I grew up in various places, I was born in Boston, went to something like, 13 different schools between Kindergarten and the 6th grade.  But ended up spending my high school years in Hingham, Massachusetts.  So, I’m from Massachusetts.  
Peter: When did you move from Massachusetts to your next location? 
Dianne: Well, my next location was actually when I went to college.  I went to Rhode Island School of Design, so I spent three years in Providence going to school, ended up getting married at the end of my junior year which was probably a mistake, but and then, spent some time out of school but ended up going to Iowa for graduate school.  I went to the University of Iowa for graduate school, so I was there for a year and a half, and then my husband and I moved to New York in 1965, I think it was, and so since then I’ve been a New Yorker.  
Peter: When you moved to New York, what was your first impression of it and did you think you would be living here? 
Dianne: Living here in Long Island City or…?
Peter: Yes, for a long period of time or where could you see yourself.
Dianne: I think, hmm, that’s an interesting question.  I think when we first came to New York we certainly came here with the intention of staying, for sure.  Both of us were interested in the arts.  My husband was a writer, so we were both very much interested in being in New York.  So, we were here for the long term.  New York was very different in 1965 than it is now.  We lived on the West Side in various places on the West Side.  He was still in graduate school and I was, had two or three or a number of kinds of jobs and doing graphic design.  For a while, I thought I might be able to make some money as a freelance graphic designer or freelance illustrator and I realize I just did not have the temperament for that and so I ended up in teaching.  And, ended up getting a job at Spence School.  It’s a private school and girls’ school in Manhattan.  I ended up teaching there for 33 years, ended up being head of the department of a pretty large art department.  So that was my day job as it were for 33 years.  So, we, ended up moving around as people do on the west side of Manhattan.  I ended up getting divorced in the 70s.  As I mentioned to you before, I had moved to New Brunswick for one year which was a very unhappy year and so I really missed New York.  I remember we had lived in a high-rise in a town outside of New Brunswick and it was the highest building around there and truly it was one of these things on a clear day you could see the World Trade Center and it kind of kept me going, you know it’s like ah, there’s New York, I could see it, but the commute killed me because I was working at Spence.  So, that was awful, so I moved back to New York and at that point, I realized I could not afford to live in Manhattan because I was an artist and I couldn’t afford to have the space I needed to be an artist, to paint, and so, I ended up looking, asking around for friends and whatever and I heard about this community called Jackson Heights.  I never, I don’t think aside from going to LaGuardia, I don’t think I’ve ever been to, I don’t,  I don’t think I’d ever been to Queens, in fact, I’m pretty sure, I’ve never been to Queens so I got in the subway, on the number 7 and got off at 82nd street and got off and started looking for real estate offices and found one and they showed me an apartment which turned out to be a very nice apartment, you could just push her off there if you want, she’s fine. I didn’t want her to inhibit your..
Peter: No, it’s okay
Dianne: At the benefit of who’s listening, this is my cat who’s crawling on the table here.  Anyway, so anyway, it was a very nice apartment, it was a big two-bedroom apartment and so I had the largest bedroom was my studio and it was truly the largest studio I’d ever had.  So, I ended up doing some really large work.  Put big pieces of paper up on the wall and it was terrific.  Then, I ended up meeting someone who’d become my partner for the next 30 years or so and our relationship continued, and I ended up in 1983, I think, moving to Long Island City and moving to where I live now although a smaller version of where I live now.  Right now, I’m lucky to have a whole small house here on Long Island City, a place that has changed greatly since 1983.  When I first moved here, it was not exactly scary, but it was very, very quiet.  I lived one block north of Queens Plaza and at the time that I moved here in ’83, there was very little here, there were just some, a few small houses like the one I live in but then the rest of the buildings were small businesses or small warehouses or something like that.  Now, Long Island City has become in the last, it seems like only a couple of years, has become an entire city with like 50 story buildings in it.  So, I’ve seen that transition go on.  
Peter: How was Long Island City back in the 80s compared to now with the people, if you notice more crime or just an overall difference about the way it looked, physical appearance, the people and what was that like for you to transition from that to now?
Dianne: Well, yeah, as I said it is really, really different, very, very, very different.  As I said, I mean it was so quiet around here that walking from the subway, either subway then lucky to have many subways that are within 2 or 3 blocks in either direction.  I would not take the subway home at night after eight o’clock was pushing it a little bit.  
Peter: Is there a reason why? 
Dianne: Well, it was very, very desolate, there were very few people on the street in fact almost no people on the street.  And since there were no houses except for the two or three on my street, there were no lights really, not many lights, buildings or you know, there were no other buildings around, there were no doormen, you know, such as you see in Manhattan or things like that so it was very, very different.  As far as crime, Long Island City was not exactly in my area but close to here were, on 31st Street in Long Island City was kind of a congregation point for prostitution and so if you drove around, you would certainly see that going on all the time, so it was a very, very different place.  Well, you know the 70’s, the 80’s up until sometime in the 90’s, New York was kind of a different place than it is now.  I mean, I think people who are young now take for granted that New York is a very safe place compared to what it was in the 70’s and 80’s that includes Manhattan of course so, yeah, very, very different and so, now I mean the transition which happened gradually but certainly in the last, let’s say in the last 5 years, the transition has been really cataclysmic and then the last two years, the transition just enormous.  I mean, on the street now you see, people who are living in the new buildings around, you see.  The biggest transition is that we see dogs.  There were no dogs before, now we have people with dogs.  I like dogs so that’s a good thing.  You see people with babies in carriages, that was not the case before.  You see a lot of people with pulling lots and lots of people pulling suitcases because there were a lot of hotels around here that happened, began to come in around maybe, five years ago or so.  So, all of these hotels began going up.  The first one went up, no one could believe it.  It went up, just south of the plaza at a time when LIC was still pretty scuzzy looking.  In the plaza and people thought, they must be out of their mind.  I think I forget what the, it was a Comfort Inn I think, and I mean people that they were absolutely out of their mind like who do you think is going to stay there, it’s unsafe.  I mean, but that’s no longer the case.  Now, we have all kinds of hotels, you know, people, they, they, they are not necessarily inexpensive, some of them are but not, not all of them.  I suppose they are a little less expensive than Manhattan which makes them the reason why people want to stay here and the access especially right around here, Queens Plaza because of the subways and the fact that we’re right at the foot of the 59th Street bridge, you can, you know two minutes can go across well given the traffic, you can go across the bridge to Manhattan so that transition has been really cataclysmic, yeah in the last 2 or three years particularly.  
Peter: Do you think working, you said as a teacher was the right thing for you? 
Dianne: It was the right thing for me.  I think if I had persevered at it, I probably could have had a career as a freelance illustrator, but I don’t know that I would’ve really loved it.  To be a freelancer, you have to have a particular kind of frame of mind and I’m, I don’t have that.  You have to, it takes a while to build up a level of clientele so you’re not worrying about where your next job is going to come from and so teaching was, I certainly wasn’t rich, certainly teaching at a private school in New York even though Spence school is a very, very good school.  At the time, most of the time, I was teaching there I would say that I was severely underpaid, so I was definitely not rich by any means and it was a lot of work.  I was a department head, so I had a lot of administrative work, but that part was creative as well and I liked teaching.  I’m lucky enough to have maintained contact with many of my former students and that’s one of the nice parts about teaching.  So, it was the right thing for me.  
Peter: Do you believe that as a teacher you were impacting many lives every day? 
Dianne: I think I do actually, even though of course I taught art and you can say well somebody teaches English or Math has a greater impact.  As I say, I’ve been very happy and really amazed at times, how many times people, wait a minute, it’s hard for me to call them women because I thought of them as girls.  They may be girls even though they might be forty come back and say how much I ment to them which is a really, really nice thing, so I guess I did make an impact.
Peter: That’s all great to hear.  What ways of transportation did you mostly use within New York City? The subway? 
Dianne: The subway. 
Peter: The subway
Dianne: And one of the great things moving to Jackson Heights was of course, I still, I took the number 7 to Queens Plaza and then I changed at Queens Plaza for the, at the time, I don’t know if it was at the end train at the time but anyway, whatever letter it was at the time, one stop at 59th and Lexon and got the uptown Lex to, to 86th street.  So, one of the great things about it was my commute, was shortened so much by moving to Long Island City, because the whole number 7 trip was wiped out.  I just got on here and had one stop from Lexington Avenue to 59th and then got the uptown number 6 after that so that was a great thing, really was.  That’s one of the reasons why I moved to Long Island City in addition to the fact that I was, I had a relationship with my partner.  
Peter: Now as a child, did you enjoy living where you did and then when you grew up, were you home sick about the place that you had a connection with as a child? 
Dianne: Well, not so much as a child since I moved around so much as a child, but certainly during my, say from the 7th grade through before I went to college, I spent my time in Hingham, Massachusetts and that was my home and I, I do still now and then become homesick for Hingham.  My ex-husband used to kid me about that: “all you want to do is move back to old Hingham, not really, I loved New York but Boston too, I loved Boston.  Boston is a great place.  
Peter: I hear that Boston is a very, very nice place. 
Dianne: It is. 
Peter: For many, many things.  Do you think that New York and Boston are very much alike, or do you think that New York or, is better than Boston or Boston is better than New York?
Dianne: That’s interesting, I think New York is a, I don’t think they’re comparable at all, I mean, I think, I think New York is so much bigger than Boston.  I love Boston and it’s a wonderful, wonderful place.  The one thing that strikes me when I go there to museums or I don’t go often enough, I’d love Boston is, is where are all the people? I mean you should go around, and to walk around in Boston, the difference between walking around let’s say on... what would be comparable, I don’t know, around the commons let’s say or something like that and around on 5th Avenue here.  The difference is enormous, there are just fewer people.  There’s just less.  
Peter: In Boston? 
Dianne: Yeah, just like, you know, it’s not like Boston doesn’t have people, it does and I’m sure there are parts, I’m sure there are parts of Boston where there are more people especially in different times of the day, office buildings, whatever, but it’s just in general, it’s Boston as a, it’s a whole different kind of place.  New York is so much bigger, so much more, there’s just more happening here.  Wonderful as Boston is I have to say there is much more happening here than there is in Boston.  
Peter: Do you believe that New York is a wonderful place if you’re living in it and you didn’t move back to Boston? 
Dianne: Oh, I absolutely do think that! And in fact, even in the bad old days, and the bad old days were really pretty bad.  In the 70’s, and a good part of the 80’s, in New York, things were not good.  You know, I remember times taking the Uptown 6th going to work in the morning or not so much in the morning, at night, getting on the train at 86th Street at 5 o’clock in the afternoon and there would be cops running through the train chasing somebody who was robbing somebody.  So, and even, in fact, even up towards the end of the 90’s, I spent some time working for the educational testing service.  I was a reader for the advanced placement arts studio portfolios and part of the week, it was held in Trenton, NJ and so part of the week was that all of the readers would come up to New York for a, an outing for a day, you know, to go over exams and things and at the end of the day we were on the subway downtown to get, to go to Penn Station to get the train back to Trenton and the, the, the, people, all of the people, they didn’t know how to act on the subway.  They just, they were sort of, I don’t, they weren’t sort of bopping around, but they were being too free and open, they were, they were getting looked at by what I thought were at the time, were some questionable types.  
Peter: So, you’ve seen a lot, so you’ve seen a lot. 
Dianne: And, I thought, and I said, I remembered saying to a couple of people, look here, you know, this is New York here, let’s just tone it down a little bit, trying, trying to be a little more circumspect and it just, just, you know, just and so yeah.  New York is a, I do love New York.  I really do.  Even, even in those times, I loved New York.  
Peter: Within Long Island City, what, what do you believe drives people to, toward the city or do you believe there are some things that drive people away? 
Dianne: By the city, do you mean Manhattan? 
Peter: Long Island City.  
Dianne: Oh..
Peter: Within Queens.  
Dianne: Well, currently Long Island City is having this moment of hotness I guess you would say, it certainly is a hot place because of where it is.  I mean, for years my partner and I lived here, lived here and said, you know, when are people going to figure out that this is like right across the east river, from Manhattan because when I would go to work, you know, people would say, you know, well, you know how long does it take for you to get in from there.  I think they had no idea where Long Island City was.  I think they thought I lived in Montauk or something like that.  I think they had no conception of where Long Island City was.  
Peter: Wow, that’s totally the opposite.
Dianne: Not any, not any.  And, so now it’s completely different of course.  Now people are drawn here by the fact that they figured out that Long Island City is right across the east river from Manhattan.  So, at least, that’s how, that’s why I think they’re living here, yeah.
Peter: What drives them away? 
Dianne: If anything is going to drive them away, it’s the fact that the development that’s happening here has happened all of a sudden and too fast with very few amenities. Up until 2 years ago, in this small neighborhood right around here, there was no place to buy groceries.  Not one place, now there is a place that’s only a block away that’s a, that’s a kind of a, it’s not really a supermarket, it’s a, it’s a, it’s a large sort of deli that has a lot of basic stuff in it which is serviceable but it’s not a supermarket and we still don’t have in this area, around Queens Plaza, we still don’t have, I think there’s one supermarket but it’s for me, a fairly decent walk so there’s, there’s very little that we, for a long time, I said, that you know, for years, living here, I said that I would kill for, for a Starbucks and you know, in Manhattan there’s a Starbucks on every corner and I never go in one.  Here, I would’ve killed for one.  We still don’t have a Starbucks.  Maybe there’s one further south in Long Island City but I don’t know about it yet.  So, we don’t have for example, a Duane Reade.  Now, in Manhattan, there’s a Duane Reade or a CVS on every other corner and it’s, they’re eating up Manhattan I think.  But here, I swear, I would kill for a Duane Reade so we still don’t have those things.  There’s so many big buildings going up all at once presumably at some point as we’ve been told for years by the Long Island City partnership, when there is a critical mass, that’s the way they put it: a critical mass, all these services will come, well, we’ll see.  We do have a bookstore though.  That’s one of the most incredible things is I think it was 2 winters ago, I saw on a community bulletin board thing online that we have a bookstore, I could not believe my eyes.  It’s a couple of, it’s three or four blocks on the other side of the plaza and it’s not only a bookstore, it’s a real bookstore.  It’s a branch of a bookstore that has, that has a couple of branches on the West side of Manhattan so if you know the west side of Manhattan, you know that it is a real bookstore, it’s a, and it’s a very nice one too so we’re lucky to have that.  That’s a start, now if we could get a Whole Foods and a Duane Reade, I’d be happy, be good.  
Peter: Wow. What predictions do you have for the future of Queens? Astoria, Long Island City, anywhere around here.  
Dianne: Well, yeah, I mean the only part of Queens I know is Long Island City and my memories of Jackson Heights and a little bit of Astoria.  And, and certainly Astoria is also changing, the part of Astoria along, along the river which it now, the real estate people apparently have a new name for that, they’re calling it “Westoria”.  Which, you know when real estate people start giving names to neighborhoods that’s the beginning of the end as far as it, what it means is that big buildings are going to start going up there and they already have so. 
Peter: Wow. Now, about your parents, it was very interesting to read your mother worked in a bank in Boston right before marriage, after divorce worked as a waitress and then worked at another Boston bank until she couldn’t work anymore? Is that right? 
Dianne: Yeah, she couldn’t work anymore at all. 
Peter: Now, how many siblings do you have? 
Dianne: I don’t have any siblings.  
Peter: Oh, okay. 
Dianne: I’m an only child.  
Peter: There’s so many things to go over or talk about branching off of one or another subject or subjects.  But is there anything you want to talk about with Queens, growing up, part of your life, part of your life that you thought was the highlight if it, anything? 
Dianne: Well, I guess, I guess the main that I think is, is I’m very thankful for and I, I feel as though somehow just, it’s by pure luck and, and through knowing my wonderful partner of 33 years.  I have been as an artist, I have been incredibly lucky because I, I know have a, a, a full small house and two studio spaces.  Most artists in Long Island City don’t live here, they have studios here but they don’t live here.  I’m afraid that quite soon artists won’t have studios here any either because the studio buildings are the places where they have studios are going to be eaten up by developers putting up big condominiums and so I feel as though I’m truly blessed to have this kind of space.  I have a full house, I have really lovely garden, to be here and, and who would’ve thought in 1983, no one thought, believe me, no one thought that this would be a desirable place to live.  It was desirable for me in terms of, certainly in terms of getting to Manhattan.  It’s always been desirable from that point of view and I’ve always loved living here, really but as far as being desirable for other people to think that this is now Long Island City is, is this competitor now to various places in Brooklyn is kind of astounding, I think it’s great but it’s kind of astounding and in terms of the arts in Long Island City, I think and the arts in New York in general, I think that artists have had to move farther and farther away, you know the places that artists have, have colonized or had, you can name them, Chelsea, SoHo before that well, you know unless you’re rich as an artist you are not living there, you know, artists don’t live in those places anymore.  Let’s go further, let’s go to Williamsburg for example. Artists used to live in Williamsburg too while maybe some still do those that bought buildings back in the 80s maybe or something like that and who have the, are lucky enough to still be there but if you’re a young artist starting out, there’s no way you can live in these places, they’re far too expensive and you can go much farther into Brooklyn, I mean, I don’t even, I don’t know Brooklyn well enough so I’m not going to even talk about that but you can go farther and farther and farther, further into Brooklyn, that’s starting to happen in Queens too which is not necessarily a bad thing but sooner or later the arts which are such an important part of New York City are going to, you know, there, people are literally going to be priced out because people, people who make art need space to make art, it’s not as though, I mean, young people starting out, they can room with other people if they’re not making art, they can room with somebody, they work in an office or something, you know, they’re young, they don’t need to have space very much, they, they can manage but if you’re an artist you really have to have a place, you have to have a place to make art and that’s where I am incredibly blessed.  I’ve somehow lucked out, I mean, I didn’t plan it but I am lucky to have this really wonderful, this wonderful house in a very, very good place for me so. 
Peter: With your art, what do you try or what do you want to make? What is, what is your art, like, what do you do? 
Dianne: Okay, I’ve done a lot of different things, I’ve certainly started out as a painter.  Right, now my work is, is primarily although not entirely, primarily a print base.  My downstairs studio has a press in it that’s an etching press and so, that’s another thing, if I didn’t have the space I wouldn’t be able to have an etching press, what I would have to do is like many printmakers, I would have to work in a common workshop, there are a couple, three in Manhattan where I could work. Many, many printmakers do that but it’s certainly nicer having your own press so there’s that but, but so, my work is print based but I make pieces called “monotypes” which are essentially the word “mono” meaning one.  Prints that there are no copies of that I make on the etching press which I then develop using other materials, all kinds of other materials, watercolor, pencil, pastels, gloache and so yeah.  That’s what my work is now.  
Peter: Are there any people that you are influenced by? Any artists? 
Dianne: Oh, many, many, many, although I suppose most of them are not printmakers.  One of them is, and, and none of them, I don’t think any of them do work that looks like mine, in the back of you, there’s a thing on the wall from Georgio Mirandee, yeah, the poster and his work is a big influence on me.  I suppose early in my career an artist named Joseph Cornell was a big influence on me.  He’s an American, I guess an American surrealist although he is much more than that but yeah, so, yeah many, many artists: Edward Manet, is a big influence on my work so. 
Peter: Did you meet anyone? Any artists that you were wanting to meet within your lifetime so far? Any artists that you wanted to meet? 
Dianne: You mean people who are famous or something? 
Peter: Sure, or anyone that you wanted to like meet at a signing or something along those lines?
Dianne: Well, I mean, I mean, I’m an artist so I do know other artists, my generation or whatever.  I don’t think I know anybody famous, if I did maybe they can get me a gallery.  I’m trying to think if there is anybody that I would love to meet.  Oh, Jasper Johns, oh if I could meet somebody I guess it would be Jasper Johns, no question it would be Jasper Johns, yeah.  
Peter: Is he, he a painter? 
Dianne: He is a painter.  
Peter: You never know, you never know.  
Dianne: He’s a, he’s a painter, he’s a really, really well known painter. 
Peter: Wow.
Dianne: He’s pretty famous.  
Peter: I believe it 
Dianne: He’s very famous, yup.  He’s still alive too, yup.
Peter: Well, that’s good. Do you believe there is any new developments coming into Long Island City or within the boro of Queens that will be a positive or negative impact to the people that live here? 
Dianne: Well, the biggest thing that’s happening, I suppose all over New York, certainly Queens because I think it’s happening seconds to Queens, happened in Brooklyn now it’s happening to Queens, development.  Development is happening everywhere.  Whether this is going to be positive or negative is still up for grabs although most people, many people here in Long Island City have already made a determination that it’s negative.  I’m not sure I totally agree with that, I think it can be positive.  If, if the, if the city realizes that people need amenities in terms of transportation, parks, certainly in Queens we don’t, in this part of Queens we badly need parks although one of the great things that the development has done is that, the, we have this really incredibly beautiful park along the river now south of here in Long Island City that we wouldn’t of had before.  We wouldn’t of had that park if that development hadn’t taken place so developments have positives and negatives to it.  I hope that there will be more positives than we’ve seen so far from the development that’s taking place around here. Well, I guess we’ll see.
Peter: Are there any significant events that happened in Long Island City that you remember? 
Dianne: Significant events... Well now we’re just getting to the part where things happen in Long Island City.  I mean nothing has happened in Long Island City for you know, a long time.  Now there are especially in this nice, nice park, Gantree Park further south from here there are you know, things that go on especially in the summer, I think there, this is not near where I live so I don’t get there that much but concerts and things like that so I think things like that are just starting to, starting to happen but uncertainly in terms of the art scene the gallery that I’m, Long Island City artists is gotten the, the use of a really wonderful space called the Plaxall Gallery which is down in that area and there are a lot of things going on there.  There are plays, various kinds of things that are going in the gallery space in addition to the art shows that go on there, so there are beginning to be things now in Long Island City. 
Peter: Wonderful. Are there any unique characteristics that you would identify to someone belonging in a certain neighborhood such as like what they wear, the accents, like where they’re from originally or anywhere particular around Long Island City, just the people.
Dianne: Well, the people in Long Island City have changed a great deal.  For one, they’ve, not news to anybody, but Queens is the most diverse boro. 
Peter: I can see that.  
Dianne: And, so, you know, even before the tourists started coming to Long Island City, Queens has almost every ethnic group ever here in Queens and I guess the only thing difference now is that a lot of the people here are on the street or even if I see sometimes on the bus are Europeans, yeah, because they’re coming here, they’re visiting the city and they’re staying in the hotels around here so that’s kind of nice. 
Peter: Do you believe that within Long Island City the property values are raising due to updating the amount of currency that an individual makes? 
Dianne: In a word, no.  I think property values are increasing because of development and because of new people moving in, but what has happened, the bad part of development somewhat less here because not so many people were living here in the first place but even here on my small block there was a building next to my house that is now torn down that did have 2 or 3 small apartments in it and that was, that had various people living in it who were, I don’t know if they were completely poor as you would define poor, but they certainly were not very well off and that building was sold a number of years ago now to a developer that eventually put in the developed building just being finished now and so those people lost their homes so there’s an example of the fact that, you know, the property value increased a lot and certainly the person, that the owner of the building made a lot of money selling that building but certainly not through any increase and the income from the people that lived there.  
Peter: Fascinating. 
Dianne: Very. Sad too. 
Peter: Are there any unique qualities of the neighborhood in comparison of other parts of New York or the world that you would like to bring to someone’s attention? 
Dianne: Well,
Peter: There are many beautiful things that make NYC the place of people saying that it’s the greatest city in the world or things like that, so with you living in it and me not being as exposed as you were for so many years and me being younger, what qualities of New York would you think? 
Dianne: Well, yeah, I still love New York, I really do but I lived here long enough to be, I consider myself a real New Yorker even though I wasn’t born here and I’ve certainly lived here long enough to complain as much as any New Yorker about the changes that are happening in the city and by the city I mean, not only Long Island City but Manhattan, the kinds of changes which are exemplified by the Duane Reades, and the CVS’ on every corner and the other corners there are banks and, and the small stores being pushed out, those are changes that I don’t think anybody who has lived here for any length of time likes and I don’t think that, I think there is a sense of sort of like what, what is it possible to do about this.  It doesn’t seem that anyone is truly focusing on that because it does seem to me that the, some of the fabric of the city is being lost, that said, nevertheless, there are parts of, I mean New York is a big place, it’s, you know, wonderful as Boston is you can’t have another place where the Metropolitan museum, the Museum of Modern Art, the Whitney, the Voorgan, and I could go on are all on in one place.  So, you know, have to take the good with the bad.  
Peter: You mostly do art in your free time right? 
Dianne: Yeah, since I don’t have a day job anymore. 
Peter: To kill time, and what makes you happy.
Dianne: Oh, well, doing art makes me happy, going to museums and galleries and things like that, I also am able to, since I have free time, I’m able to take a, a, a literature course just for enjoyment.  I’m taking a course on Dante’s Purgatorial at the moment at the 92st Y which is really fun, there’s no exams or anything and nobody cares if you do the reading.
Peter: Now, that’s what I’m talking about.
Dianne: No papers 
Peter: That’s awesome. 
Dianne: No, no, no, it’s just for enjoyment and it’s really nice, it’s a lot of fun.
Peter: I wish my program was like that. 
Dianne: I’m sure you do.
Peter: Me and every college kid. 
Dianne: I mean, I remember graduate school, I took a lot of art history courses.
Peter: I did also in undergrad and they were tough, and it was tough to even sometimes stay awake and that comes from my personal opinion but some stuff was really cool to be honest.  This is really big. Now, since you were a teacher, the assessment of a school with their quality and safety now comparing it to the past is, must be significantly different to you and to teachers of today who are teaching obviously.  Now do you see a big difference in the safety of the schools from when you taught to now?
Dianne: Well, course, the thing is, I taught in a private school so that, that the, it’s very different than whatever standards there are for, you know for public schools, you know, the building that I, that I taught in you know, in, in terms of public school was pretty small, it was built as a school but still it’s relatively small building.  So, I, I can’t really, I guess I’m sorry to say I don’t have any and you know, I haven’t taught anywhere else so, I don’t have an. 
Peter: It’s a terrible thing to see all these, you know, school shootings and everything on the news so that’s what I was regarding with all the safety measures that were taken and the precautions that they put little kids or kids who are in high school or middle school through so that’s why I wanted to touch on that.  
Dianne: Yeah, well I, I actually thought recently about you know, you know Spence is a, a private school for girls on the Upper East Side so we always had fairly good security at, at the door but I could imagine that now, probably that’s even more.  I can’t imagine, you know, I mean, perhaps now, I, I hope not but maybe they are having active shooter drills, I hope not but you never can tell, maybe they are.  I mean, I’m afraid that’s a reality these days. 
Peter: Do you believe that the education now is more demanding than it was back then for children, kids who are of age is probably, five to eighteen, let’s just say high school.  You taught high school?
Dianne: Yeah. 
Peter: Yeah, so, so do you think the education is asking more of the children? 
Dianne: Well, again I can only speak about Spence since I’ve never…
Peter: That’s okay.  
Dianne: That’s interesting that you should, I, I think that, it’s kind of a hobby horse of mine.  I think that far too much of course is heaped on students in demanding schools like Spence.  Those things are essentially resume building to get into college and the pressure to do well in all things and to have the all things be more and more is pretty strong and I think that I saw that increase during the time that I was teaching.  So that, the free time that a student had to pursue an interest or think even about something that might be of an interest outside of a programmed course or activity or sport was limited and there are only so many hours in the day and even kids that are incredibly smart and the kids that I taught were incredibly smart.  They only have so much energy and they only have so much.  There’s only so much time and so that’s the only thing that I see.  I think, I think the demands of perhaps, parents to a great degree for getting their kids into good colleges puts an enormous amount of pressure on people to do, to do well at everything.  First of all, to do everything and then to do well at everything and I think that’s really unfortunate.  I think that there’s, you know, I don’t, I don’t see any.  People talk about, least they used to talk about when I was there, they used to talk about oh well, we have to, we have to cut back, we have to have people make choices and not, not think that they can do everything but that never happened somehow, that just never happened because people always, it’s a self-fulfilling prophecy, somehow, you always want to do more since you can do more, you do do more and when you do do more you want to do it well.  At least if you’re in excellent school, you’ll want to do it more, well and more.  It’s, it’s, it’s more leads to better, better leads to more leads to better, it’s a never ending and I just think that’s really unfortunate but
Peter: Is there anything else that you would like to talk about? 
Dianne: I don’t think so. 
Peter: Okay, well, this concludes our interview on Friday, October 12, 2018.  Once again, my name is Peter Mari and I am sitting here with Dianne Martin and thank you very much. 
Dianne: Oh, thank you, been very enjoyable.  
Peter: Greatly appreciate this.  
Dianne: Thank you. 




