 Queens Memory Project
Oral History Interview Timecode Outline

City:					Queens, NY
Neighborhood:			             Jackson Heights
Date of Interview:			September 24, 2018  11:27 am
Time Period:				1983 - 2018
Interviewee Date of Birth:		09/18/1983
Name of interviewee:			Tania Mattos Jose
Name of Interviewer:			Fran Kipnis
Length of Interview:			48 minutes, 01 second
Name of Editor:
Editing software:			
Timecode Outline Preparer:		Carrie Jedlicka

Summary: 	Tania Mattos was born in La Paz, Bolivia in 1983.  She moved to Jackson Heights, Queens with her family in 1987 at the age of 4.  Tania had many happy memories of growing up in a diverse community in Jackson Heights where she had extended family.  Tania attended college at SUNY FIT and graduate school at CUNY Brooklyn College.  During graduate school, she began working in immigrants’ rights and organizing around the DREAM (Development, Relief, and Education for Alien Minors) Act.  Currently, Tania works at Unlocal, an organization that provides legal services to immigrants.  She is the co-founder of the volunteer organization Queens Neighborhoods United which works against displacement, gentrification, and police abuse in the community, specifically in Jackson Heights, Corona, and Elmhurst.  Tania hopes for Queens to continue to be a welcoming, supportive place for new immigrants.   Tania and her husband live in Jackson Heights




	


00:00:35		Tania was born in La Paz, Bolivia on September 18, 1983.
00:00:48 	Tania came to Queens in December 1987 when she was 4 years old.  Two of Tania’s aunts came to the United States and lived in Jackson Heights.  Tania’s father came to the US first (“crossed the border”) and lived here for 1 year preparing for his family to come.  Tania, her Mom, and her brother were able to come to the US on a VISA.  Tania vividly remembers arriving in the United States, first flying into Miami and then LaGuardia Airport.  Tania was reunited with her Father for the first time in a year and didn’t recognize him.  Tania and he family lived with her Aunt on 82nd and 34th Ave. for 1-2 months before getting their own apartment at 90th St.  Tania went to a bi-lingual pre-school where she learned English and went to Kindergarten at PS (Public School) 62.  Tania’s family moved around Jackson Heights, living at 90th St. for about 5-4 years until Tania was 10 or 11 year old, moving back to 82nd St. for about 10 years before moving to 89th St. between 34th and 35th Avenue.  Tania lived in New Orleans around 2012/2013.  She then met her husband who was from Astoria and they moved to Jackson Heights, where they currently reside on 81st St. between Roosevelt and 37th Ave.
00:06:11	Tania felt that Jackson Heights was an amazing place to grow up.  She loved being surrounded by her immediate and extended family, and had cousins around her age.  She has memories of barbeques in Flushing Meadows Corona Park and playing outside all the time in the summer.  She and her friends would put on shows for people in the street.  Fourth of July was her favorite holiday and it was legal to purchase fireworks. She felt that PS 69 was a great school.  She loved her teachers and classmates and was exposed to many cultures and foods – South Asian, Asian, Latin American, Eastern European. 
00:08:40	Tania felt that middle school was harder for her, as she believes it is for most children.  Tania went to PS 145. She became exposed to gang activity in the community.  Some people she considered friends joined gangs.  She felt that they were good people, but wanted the acceptance of being in a gang.  She also liked boys, which made things difficult.  However, Tania remembers having amazing teachers and that she especially enjoyed the Home Ec classes.
00:10:09	Tania went to Flushing High School where she had a great time and had good friends.
00:10:28	Tania went to college at SUNY FIT, staying in NYC.  September 11 happened while she was in college and she remembers this as a difficult time.  She was supposed to be in school that day but did not go after she saw the events on the news.  She describes taking the 7 train that day as a traumatic experience.  Afterward, there were bomb scares every week at her downtown college.
00:11:09	Tania went to graduate school at CUNY Brooklyn College, a long commute from her home to Flatbush, Brooklyn.  During this time, Tania became involved in working for immigrants’ rights inspired by her own family and many other immigrants she knew.  She participated in organizing around the DREAM (Development, Relief, and Education for Alien Minors) Act.
00:11:47	Tania shared other memories of special places and institutions in Queens.  She visited Travers Park (then called 79th St. Park) a lot when she was in elementary school.  During the summer, Tania’s father (who worked nights) would take her to the Jackson Heights Library on 81st St. and museums in Manhattan during the day when her mother was working.  Tania is a fan of Queens Library and is amazed by the way it has evolved.  She used to do research projects on type writers and later computers at the library.  She also used to frequent two movie theaters, one on 82nd St., one north of Roosevelt and one south of Roosevelt.  As a teenager, she liked visiting the theater north of Roosevelt because she would get pizza afterward at a nearby pizza shop.   Certain businesses where she would get pizza or ice cream every week were institutions.  She visited different parts of Jackson Heights, Corona, and Elmhurst.  Her family liked going to Blockbuster/Leisure video and would go on Tuesday or Thursday because the videos were half-off.  In high school, she visited Queens Center Mall a lot.  She also remembers parades which came later.  
00:15:27	Tania works at an organization called Unlocal which provides legal services to immigrants.  They provide free legal representation and work on cases including asylum cases, special immigrant juvenile status, and affirmative applications.  Unlocal has a special program for LGBTQ youth of color and a program for access to higher education.  They do community presentations on immigration law which is complex.  
00:16:33	Tania is the co-founder of the volunteer organization Queens Neighborhoods United which works against displacement, gentrification, and police abuse in the community, specifically in Jackson Heights, Corona, and Elmhurst.  Tania feels that Queens Neighborhoods United has done amazing work, including preventing a mall from being constricted at Flushing Meadows Corona Park and stopping the expansion of a business improvement district on 82nd St. that would have converted to Jackson Heights Corona Business Improvement District and displaced local businesses.  Queens Neighborhoods United is in the midst of a campaign against a Target which is supposed to be built on 82nd St.  Now, the building will be 2 stories instead of 13.  The case has gone back and forth, but Queens Neighborhoods United will continue to challenge the development.
00:19:56	Tania believes the most important job of Queens Neighborhoods United is to educate the community on what’s going on in terms of displacement.  The organization believes that displacement and gentrification do not happen accidentally.  They are caused by speculation and laws created by the elected City Council members.  Queens Neighborhoods United works on building its base and works with street vendors on Roosevelt Avenue.  The New York Times recently referred to this area as a “corridor of vice”, which Tania believes is racist.  Tania took a tour at the Tenement Museum focused on street vendors and she found that similar anti-vendor language was used in the early history of New York.  Street vendors have long-standing ties in the community, and Queens Neighborhoods United advocates for them.
00:21:58	Before the recent election, Tania felt that past representatives weren’t advocating for the community and even criminalized community members.  Senator José Peralta spoke negatively about the community in the media and advocated for a heavier police presence.  Tania advocates for alternative solutions, such as restorative justice.  Tania feels that Senator Peralta did not address community needs, such as poverty and immigration issues, that negatively impact the community.  Tania feels that Senator Peralta, New York City Council Member Francisco Moya, and Congressperson Joseph Crowley represent their own interests rather than those of the community.
00:23:41	Queens Neighborhoods United does not partner with many other organizations.  They are not a non-profit 501(c)3 organization and they feel they need to speak out about problems and not cover them up.  Queens Neighborhoods United does collaborate with DRUM (Desis Rising Up and Moving), which advocates for the Desis community. Chhaya CDC, an economic non-profit center for the South Asian community, and  IMI (Immigrant Movement International) Corona are other organizations with whom they collaborate.  Tania reports that Congressperson Danny Drum has congratulated Queens Neighborhoods United on their work, but they feel he is not as outspoken about gentrification as he could be.
00:24:58	Queens Neighborhoods United works closely with the Community Boards, especially Community Board 4.  They are supportive, and Queens Neighborhoods United tries to educate them on on-going developments. Tania mentions that the Queens Tech Hub is on their radar.  She travelled to Seattle with other QNU members and met with Seattle activists who told them that major corporations  - Amazon, Google, Boeing, Microsoft – control their city.  Queens Neighborhoods United is concerned about this happening to Queens if they become the next major tech hub, specifically the neighborhoods of Long Island City and Sunnyside Yards.  Many politicians are in favor of it.  Queens Neighborhoods United is concerned about the impact on the community, especially for lower class immigrant women.  Tech hubs will bring in more affluent workers from overseas. 
00:26:46 	Reflecting on changes in the community, Tania expresses that in Jackson Heights, the Garden District was the only area in which you would see older white people.  Now, the community is more diverse and every 10 years there’s another wave of people coming.  While Indians used to be prominent in the community, now Bangladeshi, Nepalis, and Tibetans are more prominent.  There used to be a large number of Colombians and Dominicans, and now there are larger Ecuadorian and Mexican communities.
00:27:57	Jackson Heights has a larger police presence today than when Tania was a child, and there has been a trend in criminalizing loitering and being on the street.  The 115th precinct has had one of the highest rates of issuing summons in NYC, including giving out tickets for street vending and muffler noise.  In 2012, the 115th precinct had the 3rd highest rate of stop and frisk in NYC.  Queens Neighborhoods United works with an organization Cop Watch Jackson Heights whose members walk around at night to monitor police interactions.  Sometimes police have given out tickets for things that didn’t happen, lied, or not offered translation services.  The 115th precinct reported only having 2 officers on staff who spoke languages other than English.  Also, people can be arrested for their immigration status.  NYC is supposedly a “sanctuary city”, but if a person is arrested for certain crimes, they’ll be deported.  These crimes include driving while intoxicated, domestic violence, and child abuse.  While these sound like terrible things, the crime may be as small as spanking a child as Tania has witnessed.  A person can be deported simply for being arrested; they don’t have to be convicted or found guilty.  Queens Neighborhoods United wants new ideas for dealing with policing as their communities have been criminalized and members have been sent to jail or deported for minimal crimes.  Marijuana possession is another example – a person can go to jail for 20 years.
00:31:20	Tania became an activist for a few reasons.  One is her immigration status.  Tania came to the U.S. on a VISA, but she was undocumented for a long time.  She understands the struggle and depression that people go through if they can’t find work or fear for their lives when interacting with the police.  Tania had a prior deportation order and if she had been arrested during that time, she would have been immediately deported without seeing a judge.  Tania grew up surrounded by poverty.  She was fortunate in that her father belonged to a union, 32BJ SEIU (Service Employees International Union, Local 32BJ).  Her family was not middle class, but they were better off than some.  They had health insurance and a car which were luxuries for some people in their community.  Her mother worked as a street vendor to earn money.  Tania has seen how the police treat community members and she feels they deserve better.  Tania used to fight for herself and her family, but now she wants to give back to the community due to the poverty and suffering she witnessed around her.
00:33:41	Queens community groups differ from those in other boroughs because there are people from so many different countries.  It’s not always easy to organize into sectors by country – sometimes it’s easier to organize by continents! It’s necessary to translate materials into many languages.  Queens Neighborhoods United worked with other organization including DRUM to create a “Hate Free Zone”.  After the election of President Trump, there were a lot of hate crimes in the community.  For the “Hate Free Zone”, they put on events, visited small businesses, and made presentations on how to intervene if someone is being attacked in the community.  In Queens, it’s necessary to organize through different languages, gender identities, and political agendas.  A lot of work needs to be done in Queens.  Issues include changing the District Attorney, Richard Brown, who is very conservative.  Congressperson Joseph Crowley and his attorneys control the city and foreclosures and make millions of dollars.  Queens United Neighborhoods does not accept grants from donations from politicians or foundations, so they are not beholden to anyone who might be harming the community.  Queens Neighborhoods United fundraises in the community.  Tania feels that Queens Neighborhoods United needs to continue working on collaborating with other Queens organizations, especially those representing other areas of Queens.
00:37:30	Tania and her husband now live on 81st St. between 37th and Roosevelt Ave. She and her husband are renters, and she loves their building which is made up of half-renters and half Co-op.  People in her building are from all over the world and many languages are spoken.  They celebrate many different holidays, such as those in the South Asian and Sikh communities.  Tania loves the area they live in.  She likes to travel around NYC while her husband prefers to stay in a 3 block radius from home.  There are many diverse cuisines to be found within 2 or 3 blocks of their apartment.  There are always parades on 37th St.  The only problem is parking.  She feels very safe walking around the area even late at night as there are always people around.  Tania feels she has a unique perspective on the streets because her volunteer job is to talk to street vendors and community members about what’s going on.  Her organization has a great relationship with the vendors, and she gets a lot of free food!
00:41:10 	Tania has a long commute to work.  She takes the 7 train to the 2/3 train to Wall St.
00:41:23	Tania hopes that people who want to stay in her community will do so and will be able to stay via tenant protections and true affordable housing.  The median income for her neighborhood is $40,000.  Rents are going up and people often have to spend more than 50% of their income.  Tania also hopes the Queens will continue to be a launching pad for immigrants from all over the world where they can live in a comfortable space and speak their native language.  She hopes they can find their community and then acclimate to NYC and the United States.  
	Tania feels more like a New Yorker than an American.  She feels at home in her community and she loves seeing teenagers out on the street, creating things.  She hopes that music and clothing will still be created in Jackson Heights.  She also hopes that immigrant women will continue to be able to make a living and sustain their families without being criminalized.
00:44:33	Tania and Queens Neighborhoods United have been talking to new leaders following the elections and sharing ideas for new initiatives and proposed changes to laws.  These include proposing a Community Land Trust that would allow people to own land for 100 years and help with rent control.  Other ideas include an incubator for immigrant woman who are street vendors or would like to become business owners or are in need of other resources.  Tania hopes that Queens continues to be the borough that welcomes diverse communities and that people find a home here.  The opposite of the way that Tania sees Queens is a transient town with no sense of community or building.
00:46:44	Tania hopes that the work done by her, community members, and small businesses will be a drop in the bucket to the way Queens is in 10 years.  Whatever happens to Queens, if it becomes a tech hub, they won’t go down without a fight.  There is people power in Queens, and residents are willing to fight for their communities.
 



