Queens Memory Project
Oral History Interview Timecode Outline
City: 
Neighborhood (if any): 
Date of Interview: 
Time Period:  
Interviewee Date of Birth: 
Name of interviewee: Maria Daphnia 
Name of interviewer: 
Length of interview: 00:36:50
 
Name of editor: 
Editing software: Adobe Soundbooth
Timecode Outline Preparer: Baksha Ali
Summary:   Maria Daphnia has spent a good part of her childhood in Sunny Side, Queens. Her family moved to Sunny Side Gardens when she was 9 years old and has resided there for a long time; She had a lot of relatives living close by, so it was a pleasing and benign place for her to grow up in. As a child, she attended the Queen of Angel church with her sister and spent most of her time socializing there. After getting married, at the age of 20; she moved out of her family home in Sunny Side Gardens, Nonetheless, she stayed linked to the area because of having extended and immediate family members still, living there. Despite living in Queens, she attended Hunter High School from 6th to 12th grade, which was in Manhattan. Therefore, she had to take the subway when she was just 11 years old. During this interview, Maria talks about what it was like growing up in Sunny Side Gardens during the 50’s, attending Queen Of Angel church, and shares memories of taking the subway during that time period.

00:00:17	the family moved to the house in Sunny Side Gardens, when she was 9 years old. Maria lived there until she was 20 and got married. A significant part of her childhood was in Sunny Side, so she thinks of it, as home; her parents lived there for many years; so, she still stayed connected to the neighborhood.

00:01:00	 lived at the house probably, from 51 to 62.

00:01:19	in retrospect, Sunny Side seems like a nirvana, it was a wonderful place; you knew your neighbors. It was also a close knit community. She lived in 44th and Skillman; her grandparents owned a home in 46th and Skillman, an aunt in 43rd street, and an uncle in 48th street. So, she could not go very far, without running into someone from her family. Thus, she thought of it, as a safe place to grow up.

00:02:15	most of her memories revolves around her family. Her father was the 5th child of an Italian American couple and there were a total of 9 children. Both of her parents grew up in the lower east of Manhattan. When her grandfather from her father side, retired from his job at the telephone company; all the children put in 100 dollar a piece for a down payment for the house in Sunny Side. That house became the focus for the family. It was a two family house; her grandparents and one of her unmarried aunt at that time, lived there. The basement had a full kitchen and they would gather there during big holidays, like New Year’s, Easter, Mother’s Day and Father’s Day, Fourth of July, Thanksgiving, and Christmas. It was like a revolving door because all of the children would constantly be there and the kitchen would never be full. It was a happy place for her to grow up in. 

00:04:29	the family would get together during holidays. Christmas was a big feast; they would start eating around 1:00 o’ clock in the afternoon and keep on eating until 9:00 o’ clock. One of the uncles would dress up as Santa Claus and come down the basement, with the bells ringing, the little children’s would sit on his lap, and they would get presents. She also had a grandmother, who lived with her. The grandmother contributed the down payment for the house Maria and her parents lived in; it had 3 bedrooms. Her grandmother had one, her parents had one, and her sister and she had one. The house only had one bathroom. 

00:05:47	 attended P.s 150 from 5th to 6th grade; a lot of the kids went to 125, but she was accepted into Hunter High School, which was an all girls’ school, at that time. Therefore, she attended Hunter High School from 6th to 12th grade and took the subway every day.  

00:06:12	it was a good school. Sonia Madaour graduated from Hunter High School.

00:06:47	after getting married, her parents moved to the Queens Bridge Houses in Long Island City. Recently, she heard that it is the largest housing project in the country. It was like a haven for people, who lived in tenement during early 40’s; it was a stepping stone for people, to save up money and find a better place. Her family lived there until they bought the house in Sunny Side because her grandparents lived there. Sunny Side Gardens was designed by Louise Lanford and it was the first planned community in the country; they are brick attached homes and they built around a central courtyard, so they have small yards. It was a huge step, for people like her parents, to own a home. It is the only house, her mother has lived in and it was important to her. 

00:09:11	they would gather at grandmother house, for every single holidays. She had a lot of cousins and they were around her age. One of her cousin shared a name with her. In Italian families, the children are often named after their grandparents; her grandmother was named Maria and her grandfather was named Paul. Therefore, many of her male cousins were named Paul. Her grandfather was illiterate, even in Italian; he grew up in a poor part of Sicily, came to America and met her grandmother, who was also Sicilian. Family was really important to them and their social life revolved around the family and they did not have a large group of friends. 

00:10:45	they would go to church because they are catholic. She mostly remembers, eating a lot during the holidays, because it was a big thing.  The would eat pasta, roast, and veggies during holidays. The men would eat artichoke and wine, while the women would clean up. 

00:11:41	her grandparents and her parents were not church goers. However, her sister and she were sent out to attend church. Therefore, her sister and she were very connected to the church. The only time she saw her grandfather attending church, was because he was going to have a surgery for prostate cancer. The church was particular important to her, because she did not go to the local high school so she lost touch with the kids she met in P.s 150. She was taking the train to get to Lexington Avenue and 68th street, when she was 11. Therefore, she did not have the social life that most kids did when attending the local high school. The Queen of Angel church would hold an afernaity on Tuesday; if you went there and you listened to half an hour of religious instructions; you got to dance, so there were records and there was an old refrigerator wit sodas, and that was her social life. That’s, where she met the kids from the neighborhood. The Church was called “The Queen of Angel” and it was directly across from her house; she also met her husband there. 

00:15:01	the church is important to her, she is still a church goer. She met her husband there, got engaged and married at the church, and her first child was baptized at the church as well. The church was also different back then. It was glue for the community. Sunny Side was mostly Irish, Italian, and Jews during that time. The church in the 50 had a more prominent role in the community in comparison to today’s time.

00:16:37	Became friends with people from the church and they would have parties at the basements of their house. Toni Cad arouse, in particular, had a lot of parties during Friday nights; in his basement. They would also gather at Tour be park in 43 streets; someone would bring a portable radio during summer nights and they would hang out. 

00:17:42 would listen to music such as; Rock N, Roll, Elvis, the Fathers, Coasters, American Band Stand

00:19:03	started taking the subway, when she was 11 years old, because she was enrolled in Hunter High school going into 6th grade. She had the original helicopter mom, who was very protective, so to let her 11 year old girl take the subway, was not easy for her. The summer before; her mother, sister, and she, would go back and forth, from the street of  sunny side to the school; so she would know and not get lost. However, she ended up getting lost anyway. She had one bad experience in the subway. She had a lot of friends in flushing, so they would take the subway together. Generally, the subway was pretty safe in the 50’s, but , a guy was following her and her friends, when they were changing trains. She never told her mother regarding it; she started taking the bus from then on because she was afraid to take the train.  Unfortunately, she late to due to taking the bus, so she ended up taking the subway again. For her, the subway is a convenient way to get from place to place.

00:22:17	there were little stores in Skillen Avenue during that time. There was a laundromat that was run by a Chinese family, between 45th to 46th; they were all stores, and a grocery and butcher store at the corner; they had to share the corner. The grocery store was called “ Charlies Market”, named after the owner, Charlie Morena. 

00:25:30	her little neighborhood, in Sunny Side Garden, looks exactly as it did.
Her parents lived at the house for 50 years. The house also had 2 apartments upstairs, and they would rent it out. Therefore, the house paid for itself. 

The subway did not change as much over the years, other than having AC’s rather than ceiling fans.    

