Queens Memory Project
Oral History Interview Timecode Outline
City: Jamaica
Neighborhood (if any): 
Date of Interview: April 8, 2016
Time Period: 1969-2016
Interviewee Date of Birth: Oct 29, 1969
Name of interviewee: Janet Miles
Name of interviewer: Arbesh Khan and Reshad Hai
Length of interview: 00:26:14
Name of editor: Arbesh Khan
Editing software: “Adobe Soundbooth”
Timecode Outline Preparer: Arbesh Khan
Summary: Janet Miles grew up in Pennsylvania before moving to upstate New York. She later relocated to different boroughs of New York City from Manhattan to the Bronx then Brooklyn before ending up in Queens. Janet resides at Jamaica Residence with her husband and twin sons. She discusses the hardships of living in a shelter and what the experience has taught her. She hopes to move out in the near future and eventually leaving New York City and owning a home. 
00:00:20 Janet grew up in Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania. Growing up she did a lot of sport activities. Her parents had a boat so would Jet Ski and do summer activities on the lake. Her parents also had a motorhome so they traveled down the East Coast on vacation. In 1995, she wanted some change so she moved Oyster County from Pennsylvania. It was very rural upstate. The person she was seeing at the time had parents there. She worked in an office as a secretary and first started Dental School. She later went on to work for two different dental offices. She moved to Queens in 2011.
00:02:50 In 2001, Janet was incarcerated and was paroled in New York City. Growing up, she often visited Philadelphia so the change from suburbs to urban wasn’t so different. She understood subways and bus. After parole, she got wiser and paid the price for her mistakes. She wants to get out of the city and the goal is now to move back to the suburbs.   
00:04:20 Janet and her family were living in the Bronx and they had a really bad landlord. They entered the shelter system in 2009. Back then you were moved around shelter to shelter so they were in a couple Bronx shelters, then Brooklyn before ending up in Queens. In the Bronx, they chose not to pay rent because the landlord wasn’t fixing anything. They took her to Housing Court but nothing came out of it. If she knew the programs that were out there then that she knows now, they would’ve taken a different route than coming into a shelter. “This is our first time in a shelter, a long time, but our first time and I don’t want to come back.”
00:05:50 This site is a city run shelter in comparison to a privately owned shelter. There are only a few city-run shelters left. This shelter is not as bad as other places they’ve been but it’s no place to raise children. Tier two shelters are privately owned buildings that are rented out by Homeless Services and those owners get a lot of money to house a family. For example, for a family of four, you would receive $4,000/month. The Coalition for the Homeless is trying to say that instead of housing families, that money should be used to pay a portion of their rent. The Mayor has opened up a lot of housing options since last April. The key is for the move out to be permanent so you don’t come back to a shelter. 
00:07:55 A couples years ago when the numbers were down in the population of homelessness, they would often transfer you so you don’t become comfortable in one place for too long. Now that the homeless population is so high, they don’t transfer you anymore unless something severe happens within the shelter. 
00:08:35 This is a non-cooking facility. A lot of the private shelters are regular apartments. Janet is not used to not cooking. You’re not allowed to have hot places. She has children that need to eat properly.  “We do what we have to do.”
00:09:25 They’ve been in the Jamaica Residence for 5 years and they were not expecting to be there that long. They got caught between the old vouchers, (advantage vouchers) that Mayor Bloomberg cut off for three years. There was no housing so basically people sat and waited until Mayor De Blasio came and reinstated them.
00:10:16 When they first came in, it was very rough. There were a lot of fights amongst residence and staff. A lot of drinking that was allowed at the time. The new director tightened things up. The new director has big changes for the better. The environment changes as people move in and out. 
00:11:40 Breakfast is from 6-7:30 am. The kids are in school by 8 am. During the day Janet does housing searches. Lunch is from 12-1 pm. Dinner is from 5:30-7 pm. Tuesday night, York college alumnus come in and do seminars. Fourth World comes in on Wednesday and does children’s arts and crafts. On Thursday, New York Cares comes in and does arts and crafts. They used to have game night but that got taken away. Big Buddies from Queens College come in on Saturdays. 
00:13:00 Her sons, Matt and Mark, got perfect attendance, the only two in the building, and were rewarded a trip to Washington DC. They have little trips here and there. They went to Broadway and watched Matilda. 	
00:13:30 The experience mentally drained Janet but she’s a stern individual. Even though it’s a shelter, she runs a tight ship. The kids are expected to go to bed and school on time. Now they have a section 8 voucher. The stigma of coming from a shelter hurts but the checks are coming and you have to say you’re from a shelter because they pay the first month’s rent, broker fees and the security so there’s no way of getting around that. When owners and renters hear you’re coming from a shelter, they’re shocked. “Not everyone is a bad apple in shelter. A lot of good, decent people that need some help.”
00:15:08 Janet has teenagers in the Bronx who live with their grandmother. Her family in Pennsylvania doesn’t even know that she’s been in shelter because she chooses not to tell them. It’s not out of embarrassment, it’s just that some things she doesn’t let them know and this is one of them, no matter how hard. Her kids are getting older and asking why they don’t have things like a couch because you’re not allowed that stuff but they will. “This is only temporary, a long temporary, but it’s only temporary. God got a plan for us.”
00:16:04 Janet has met a lot of good people like her friends Glenda and Ricky. There’s people that come and go whom she has stayed in touch with through social media. She’ll shoot a text every six months asking how everything is going.  
00:16:38 Janet’s biggest concern at the moment is to get out of here. They have money put aside and they have a good voucher. They have to stay in the city for at least 12 months and then they can leave the city and that feels good. Her family always tells her that she’s so lucky to live in New York City but she just wants to be one of those people, who get on a bus once or twice a year to come visit the city and go right back. 
*Takes a break at 00:17:49*
00:17:51 Janet’s near future plans are to get an apartment, go back on social security and go back to work. In the past, she has worked as a Bartender, waitress and dental assistant. People who end up in the shelter system aren’t just people who are unemployed or don’t want to work. Its people with jobs, like her friend who works at NYU, another does cleaning or working at ACS, who end up needing some type of housing help since New York City is so expensive. Their voucher for two bedrooms is $1,630, if she goes to Pennsylvania or parts of Jersey, you can get an entire house and still have money to pay your bills. A goal of Janet’s is to rent or have their own home. 
00:19:54 Janet looks forward to getting back to regular life after leaving the shelter. Being able to cook, not sign in or out and have your own keys, it’s the little things that mean a lot. 
00:20:23 Janet met her husband, Yama, through a friend named Debbie in the Bronx. She thought he was funny. Together they have twins, he respects her other children just like she respects his. 
00:21:55 Yama was a having a gathering at his apartment where she had been living at the time. She had hurt her ankle so she went on an ambulance to St. Barnabas Hospital. Yama said he would get rid of everyone and meet her at the hospital. She not only finds out that she’s pregnant, but pregnant with twins and they were both boys. She was almost two months pregnant. Yama ran around the block showing the sonogram. Twins run in her family. It was hard when they were younger, it’s gotten easier at they get older. She was 37 when she got pregnant with the twins and thought her baby days were over since her oldest is 29 years old. 
00:24:03 If you have to go through what you have to go through, you can’t get comfortable in Shelter. It has not been easy; you just have to learn to maneuver. Now that she knows about more programs, she wishes she knew them before so she would’ve done things differently. The city doesn’t tell you everything; you have to go through these things.  They applied in 2007 for a Section 8 voucher and they still wouldn’t have gotten it if it wasn’t for being in a shelter because they get priority. Get out of New York City, go somewhere cheaper. 

