Queens Memory Project
Oral History Interview Timecode Outline

City:				Flushing, NY
Neighborhood (if any):		
Date of Interview: 		August 15, 2015 
Time Period:			1964-65
Interviewee Date of Birth:	Month XX, 19XX
Name of interviewee:		Gary Miller
Name of interviewer:		Jennifer Sanchez
Length of interview: 		00 hrs, 23 min, 06 sec
Name of editor:		First Last (this is the person who edits the audio file into clips for 
the QMP site)
Editing software:		Name of software, ex: “Audacity” or “Adobe Soundbooth”
Timecode Outline Preparer:	Jennifer Sanchez
	
Summary:	Gary Miller, who visited the fair when he was 16, gives an in depth description of various pavilions and exhibits in the fair that stood out most to him. He is currently a World’s Fair History and volunteer with the NYS Pavilion Paint Project which helped re-paint the building and hosts events for people to attend. 

00:00:21	Describes how the entire experience of attending the World’s Fair was for him. \ 
                          He was about 16 years old and he attended with both family and friends. 
                          Attending with friends gave him a sense of freedom.

00:01:16	Describes his favorite pavilions: the corporate pavilions such as Bell Telephone, 
                          General Electric, General Motors and Ford, etc. Explains the Coca Cola walk 
                          through exhibition in which guests were given a free coke. The Wisconsin 
                          pavilion stood out to him most out of all of the international pavilions with the 
                          World’s largest cheese on display. Explains that the fair was a place where you 
                          could view important paintings from the Spanish Pavilion then walk across the 
                          street to see a giant cheese.

00:02:54	Tells us how Robert Moses allowed everyone to do what they wanted with their 
                          pavilions. There were lots of rides, exhibitions, etc. Disney had four pavilions 
                          with other companies. Explains the Ford exhibition where you rode in a car  
                          through a history of dinosaurs all the way to the future.

00:04:57	He’s heard people compare the fair to the Wizard of Oz, it’s a fantasy land.

00:05:45	The IBM pavilion, in the shape of a giant egg, was the most interesting building to him. It had demonstrations of electric typewriters. There were also several exhibits under the giant egg. The most exciting of these was a giant grandstand that brought you into the building and you watched movies on multiple screens. It was entertaining but also related to IBM products. 

00:10:08	Two things that everyone took away from the fair: Belgium Waffles, everyone ate them, and the “It’s a Small World” theme song stuck in your head. 

00:12:07	The NYS Pavilion had three components: “The Tent of Tomorrow” with the map of New York State, the fiberglass roof no longer exists, the “Thearterama” which included a 360 degree film, and the Observation Towers which were designed to be the tallest at the fair by Governor Rockefeller. Unlike other Pavilions, the building itself, designed by Phillip Johnson, was the main attraction rather than what was in it. 

00:14:45	He talks about a volunteer project, The NYS Pavilion Paint Project, that he is part of working on repainting the pavilion. The goal was to have it painted for the anniversary on April 22, 2014 so that guests can come to visit it. Since then they invited people to visit it two more times and would like to continue doing this. Melinda Katz and the Parks Department have also been interested in restoring the Pavilion and Observation Towers. Tells us all of the parts of the pavilion that has been put to other use.
00:21:42	He spoke to a security guard on Queens Colleges campus, she asked about Flushing Meadow, and he informed her that she should visit the World’s Fair relics that still exist. 









Queens Library, Library Services Dept., Attn: Natalie Milbrodt, 89-11 Merrick Blvd. Jamaica, NY 11432

For More Information, Contact: Director, Natalie Milbrodt (Natalie.Milbrodt@queenslibrary.org)




