Queens Memory Project
Oral History Interview Timecode Outline

City: 				Briarwood and Jackson Heights
Neighborhood:	 	
Date of Interview:	 	January 29, 2018
Time Period: 			1944-2018
Interviewee Date of Birth: 	February 8, 1944
Name of Interviewee: 	John Moran
Name of Interviewer: 		Fran Kipnis 
Length of interview: 		01 hr. 09 minutes and 28 seconds
Name of editor:		
Editing Software:		Adobe Soundbooth
Timecode Outline Preparer:	 Fran Kipnis

Summary:	John Moran was born in 1944 in New York City. He was raised in the Parkchester section of the Bronx and moved to Briarwood, Queens in 1969. He moved to Jackson Heights in the early 1980’s and has lived in the same apartment ever since. John was active in various LGBT organizations in Queens, including Dignity Queens, QCLUE, Queens Pride, and the Lesbian & Gay Democratic Club of Queens. He was also involved in Queens organizations, including the Jackson Heights Beautification Group and Community Board 3.  John currently attends events at the Queens Center for Gay Seniors and is a tutor at an Astoria housing project. He can’t believe the progress gays have made in terms of equal rights during this life time.  John believes that gay people are just another group in the “potpourri of nationalities, different religions and ages” that make up Jackson Heights. 


00:00:00	John Moran was interviewed at the Jackson Heights Branch of the Queens Public Library, located at 3551 81st Avenue, Jackson Heights, on January 29, 2018 at 1:40 PM.

00:00:43	John was born in 1944 in New York City and his mother was born in New York City. His father was born in Ireland.

00:00:50 	John’s father was the youngest of three brothers and one sister. His paternal grandfather committed suicide when his paternal grandmother was pregnant with his father. Two of his father’s older brothers were active in the IRA (Irish Republican Army). They were jailed, but escaped to Canada. One uncle (James) eventually settled in New York City and the other brother (Peter) settled in Boston.  John’s father told John he had come to the U.S. twice, but went back to Ireland because there was no work. This was during the depression. His father ultimately got a job in NY, in the post office, and always worked there. 

00:02:43	John’s parents were married in 1943.  John was born in St. Claire’s Hospital in Manhattan. The hospital does not exist anymore. John grew up in the Parkchester section of the Bronx.

00:03:17	In 1969, John moved to Briarwood, Queens.  He knew he was gay, but was hoping he could marry a woman.  John knew if he stayed home, he would not do anything about his life. That motivated him to get this own apartment. He lived in Briarwood until the early 1980’s and then bought an apartment in Jackson Heights. 

00:04:08	The Briarwood apartment was fine. Prior to the migrations of immigrants, Briarwood was basically composed of people of European origins. John did not really set up any roots there. His mother would still launder his shirts when he went to the family’s home for dinner! He just slept there. The neighborhood was made up of Irish, Italians, and Jews.  

00:05:24	In 1965, John received his bachelor’s degree - he was studying to be a priest. He left the seminary after graduation. He feared he would ‘go crazy’ at the Novitiate because he would not be able to avoid thoughts about his sexuality.  There would be no classes with exams, etc. to take his mind off the terrible condition he had; homosexuality. He felt he was damaged goods of a particularly loathsome nature. The following year would be a religious year and he could not do that. He lived for four years with his family in the Bronx. Then he moved to Briarwood.

00:07:08	When John lived in in Briarwood, he became aware of gay Catholic organizations in Queens.  One was called Dignity Queens, which originated in San Francisco.  A neighbor was a member.  

00:08:38	John lived with his parents until 1969 and came out around this time. There were gay bars in Jackson Heights then. A gay friend from Dignity Queens (was married to a woman at the time), Richard (Dick) Oppels, lived in Jackson Heights. It was a fluke of luck that he went to Jackson Heights and found the building he still lives in (3530 73rd Street Apartment 5H). The building was being converted to cooperatives and the tenants were fighting it. John had a choice of five apartments. His best friend from high school, who is also gay, recommended that John get an apartment in the back of the building, because the traffic on 73rd Street was horrendous at that time. That has passed. John is still living in the same apartment, since the early 1980’s.

00:11:43	People started an organization called QGLU (Queens Gay and Lesbians United).  Ed Sedarbaum was the prime mover of the organization. An issue arose in Danny Dromm’s school. He had come out publicly as a public-school teacher.  John could not remember the exact issue. Danny (Dromm) came to QGLU. It was reported in the papers that he was gay. (This was in the early 1980’s). Danny (Dromm) decided to come out over the issue and he became involved in the gay community.

00:14:14	The issue was connected to an ‘old Irish grandmother type’ who was very anti-gay. The upshot was that Danny Dromm was integrated into the gay system and he started various organizations.

00:14:41	Jackson Heights is very different now from what is was in the 1980’s. It was Irish and Jewish at the time. John then talked about housing exclusion in Parkchester, where he grew up. Parkchester was built by the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company (opened in 1940). He learned that Jewish people were also excluded.  Metropolitan Life Insurance stopped the practice because of the threat of a law suit. 

00:16:56	John mentioned that being gay in Jackson Heights, in the 1980’s, was something you wanted to be surreptitious about. There were gays bars on Roosevelt Avenue. You had no sense that there was a large contingent of gay people living in Jackson Heights. Danny Dromm was agitating for more than a year for a gay parade. It was very exciting the morning of the first parade, but John was wondering what would happen when the neighbors found out he was gay. He was not really afraid, just curious what would happen.  It turned out the parade was a success.  John remembers young women with babies watching the parade.

00:18:10	Today, gay people are just another group in this potpourri of nationalities, different religions and ages. 

.

00:20:40	John had already been involved in QGLUE.  Danny Dromm came to QCLUE. There was a meeting in Queens Borough Hall. The upshot was that Danny (Dromm) had come out as a gay teacher agitating for equal rights.  Danny (Dromm) grew up in Jackson Heights and came out when he was an older teenager. Danny (Dromm) was an alcoholic and got his life together. 

00:22:03	John was a general member of Queens Pride. He was not a member of any sub committees.  

00:22:33	John retired from teaching Spanish on Long Island in the late 1980’s. He went to Law School at night and received a law degree. He got a job with the New York City Department of Corrections. A classmate from the seminary helped him get the job. There were a number of reunions of the seminary class and he mentioned at one of the reunions that he was looking for a job.  A few years later, he gave one of the classmates a call – and this classmate asked if he still needed a job and to come for an interview. (We talk more about John’s career later in the interview.)

00:24:12	John was a member of the Lesbian and Gay Queens Club (Club). Danny Dromm also founded this Club. Danny (Dromm) asked John to be president and he was president for two to three years. John thought it was a good experience, but stepped down. He could not recall exactly why he stepped down. 

00:25:38	This was the time that Danny Dromm established Winter Pride. The 25th anniversary of Winter Pride was celebrated last year. The event started as a banquet in a banquet hall a few blocks north of Northern Blvd. It occurred there for five years.  The event grew and went to Bruno’s on Northern Blvd and (around) 100th Street. Now it is at the Astoria World Manor.  The event has grown tremendously. Very few politicians attended Winter Pride in the beginning.   Only the courageous and gay-respecting politicians came. These politicians deserve thanks, they started the ball rolling. 

00:27:12	John got tired of the event. The cocktail hour is wonderful. Then you go into main hall and the politicians start talking! (A lot of politicians attend the event now.) Now that John is part of the senior generation, he does not even know who these politicians are. It was very touching at the event last month. Danny Dromm’s mother died and there was a major recognition of that. Danny (Dromm) spoke to the group. John reflected on the fact that the gay community is established. John says every year that he won’t go again, but he will go every year! 

00:29:38	John hardly ever attends the Lesbian and Gay Queens Democratic Club meetings any more. Danny Dromm also started the New Visions Club, which is a democratic club for the general population. 

00:30:17	The New Visions Club is a general political club. The president is from India or a neighboring country. It is another organization that Danny (Dromm) formed before he was a Councilmember. John does not regularly attend the meetings. 

00:31:04	John is doing volunteer work tutoring children in an Astoria Housing Project which is in a very high crime area. One of the people on the agenda at New Visions was a man working with those kids, so John wanted to hear him speak.  There was an incident about a month ago where a 16-year-old killed another 16-year-old (in the Bronx). The speaker has a program that is trying to save these kids. That attracted John to the meeting, but he generally does not go.

00:32:31	Dignity Queens ended about 10 years ago, but John is still a member of Dignity Manhattan. He does not go to the meetings any more. They have an annual dinner, which John attends.

00:33:04	John participated in the Manhattan gay political clubs. He does not see any differences with the Queens clubs. In Queens, you would expect people to be closeted, but that has changed. It is the same feel in both places.  There is a whole new generation of politicians in Manhattan that John doesn’t know. Stonewall Democratic Club was one of the political clubs John attended.

00:34:39	John was a member of Queens Community Board 3. It was very frustrating.  John mentioned that in the first year of living in his Jackson Heights apartment, it was burglarized.  (We talk about Community Board 3 later in the interview.)

00:35:25	The Jackson Heights Beautification Group was the group most responsible for John getting involved in activities outside the gay community.  It was very vibrant and is still around. Every Saturday, the group cleans the streets in Jackson Heights; they organize many events. One of the prime movers is a real estate agent who has a job in the neighborhood. John left the organization because of a particular person who took a dislike to John and John was not sure why. John was on the board and then quit. But he thinks the group does a tremendous amount of good; they have a newsletter and do projects throughout the year. They are an asset to the neighborhood.

00:37:28	John went from the Beautification Group to Community Board 3. That turned out to be a disappointment and frustration. The people not at the top did not have much input into the discussion. 

00:37:55	John described a burglary in his building in the 1980’s.  This was the only time he has had a problem like that. Over time, John has not thought about the incident.

00:39:57	Community Board 3 issues included traffic, congestion, and noise. This was   about 25 years ago when Danny Dromm founded the gay pride parade.  When John talked about issues, the Board members would not respond. John participated for many years. He mentioned that it is good being involved in the community and knowing what is going on.

00:41:02	When Danny Dromm was around, John was energized. That has continued and now Danny (Dromm) is in his third term.  No other gay leaders stand out for John as influential in his gay activism.  

00:42:23	Living conditions are an important issue for John in terms of being an activist. The gay issue – it started with being worried about someone overhearing you talk about the gay community - to the way things are today. John still can’t believe, and never imagined, gay marriage. He would have been happy with equal rights and not being discriminated against. He would never have believed there would be gay marriage.

00:43:12	The AIDS crisis was an issue being dealt with by the gay democratic clubs. Whatever the clubs were doing around AIDS, it did not come up in the neighborhood. John mentioned that two young, gay, Hispanic men were murdered in Jackson Heights at the time. (Julio Rivera was murdered in Jackson Heights.) The rest was day to day, making the gay presence known. There were AIDS organizations, but John was not sure if any organizations in Queens or Jackson Heights were founded on the AIDS issue.  John talked about having only two or three good friends in your lifetime - AIDS did not affect the people close to him. John recalled, Tom Darrah, a priest who left the priesthood and came down with AIDS.  This happened about 25 years ago.

00:45:38	John could not think of any specific Club activities related to AIDS. Most of the AIDS activities were centered in Manhattan. John does not remember that the Club did a lot about it. People were still afraid to come out at that time.

00:46:32	John left the seminary because the next year would be a spiritual year and he could not do that.  It was 1965 and the Viet Nam war was heating up.  John went to Regis High School for extremely smart kids, otherwise, he says, he did not have much self-esteem.  John was thinking about how he could avoid the draft. He was not afraid of being killed or maimed in the war, but remembers thinking that he could not imagine going through basic training.

00:48:04	When John came back to NY from the seminary, he sent resumes to Catholic schools to get a job and then get a deferment from the draft. He felt some guilt, until he realized a lot of people were looking for a way out. Rice High School on 124th Street in Harlem hired him.  He taught Latin, English and religion.

00:49:16	John went to school at night and became a certified teacher. He would have stayed on at Rice, but wanted to work in a public school. He was sad to leave. John then got a job in Glen Cove, New York. 
 
00:50:06	John taught in Glen Cove from 1969 to the early 1980’s. John taught Spanish – he was certified at Middlebury College as a Spanish teacher. 

00:50:46	When John taught at Rice High School, it was all white, even in Harlem. These were the kids that could not get into other Catholic schools. Years later, the school became all black. The school did eventually close.  John thought the Cardinal could have subsidized the school! 

00:52:04	John received a Law Degree in early 1980’s.  He knew he was smart and wanted another secure job. He got the job as a lawyer in New York City Department of Corrections.  John asked to start when the school year was over but they made him start in May.   Because of office politics, he did not do any real work there until December.

00:53:51	John’s job was to settle a backlog of disciplinary cases against correction officers. They tried to work out settlements for these cases before they went to trial.  John retired from this job.  The correction officers were not all bad apples. Some correction officers were even living on the subway.  The first year was very stressful, then it got better. John told a story about one of the officers whom he helped by working with a social worker.

00:56:45	The Office was in lower Manhattan. Sometimes John worked in an office in Queens. He commuted via the subway. John has not driven since 2000.  Cars are not a part of his life. John mainly uses the subway and busses. Even with relatives in the suburbs, he never needs to drive. 

00:58:04	John thinks the gay battle has been won. He is not sure what he hopes for the future. Gays, like any group in the populace, need their rights and their programs. John does not think Trump has done anything to damage gay people, although he is certainly hurting poor people and immigrants. The gay community will be one of many communities that will try to get Trump out of office. John thinks gay rights for the most part have been achieved in NY, the city certainly, and maybe New York State. So, we don’t need to be an advocate for gay rights, except for things like a gay senior center. 

00:59:52	The Queens Center for Gay Seniors (Center) in Jackson Heights does not call itself SAGE (advocacy and services for LGBT seniors). The Center meets at the Jackson Heights Jewish Center, which hosts various groups. The Center has a program that meets Monday to Friday. Danny Dromm came in once with a contingent from Cuba. At that time, John learned that the Center’s origin was not from the gay community, but emerged from the Mario Cuomo deal related to high rises proposed in Forest Hills (1972). The community and the politicians worked out a deal to establish various agencies and build a number of high rises.  These agencies were not just for Forest Hills, but other areas in Queens.  The Center is a governmental organization, catering to gay seniors, for all of Queens.

01:03:51	There are many programs at the Center. They serve meals every day. John participates in the history discussion groups. John mentioned that as he gets older, he is very interested in history.  John then commented on the food – laughing that it does not have much taste!  

01:05:24	John hopes that the congestion in Jackson Heights will improve in the future. Quality of life is important.  John is not sure what can be done on Roosevelt Avenue, where people want to get in and out as quickly as possible. Danny Dromm created Diversity Plaza about five or six years ago and now there is a major Plaza renovation. John thinks it will be a very beautiful place.

01:06:16	John said the greatness of Jackson Heights is that there is no strife along the lines of ethnic groups or religions.  You always feel safe. John lives one-half block away from subway.  He recently tried an ethnic restaurant on his block for the first time.  It was very creative and delicious food. 

01:08:10	John does not go around announcing he is gay, but when it comes up naturally in conversation, he is not afraid to say he is gay.

01:08:36	John thinks that that Queens will develop. He mentioned that if you take the number 7 train, you can see what is happening in Long Island City. There are many new buildings. Many of the apartments are empty and there will be many wealthy people. This is what Queens needs to deal with now. 

01:09:07	Interview concluded at 2:50 PM.








	

