 Transcript notes for research  Mary Devitt (MD): My name is Mary and I’ve lived here for 44 years  Jeanne O’Melia (JO): And I’ve lived here since 1978, almost 33 years  Denis Curtin (DC): I’ve been here since 1960.  I’ve been in America since 1958, but in Astoria since 1960.  The neighborhood was good.  It was all working people. And the prices were good.  And it was centrally located.  You were in the city in 10 minutes.  Astoria has always been good. When I first moved here, actually I was a kid.  I went to High School, over in Sunnyside. I married and divorced and have three boys.  They’re all grown up and married themselves.  The youngest is 37.  But I love Astoria.  I’m a big park guy.  And I’m a big reader.  Sometimes I’m up at 5, 6 in the morning, I get a coffee and a donut; I drive down to Astoria Park.   There’s not as much Irish community as there was before.  It was a big German community originally.    MD: When we came here in the 1960s, it was German.  German, Italian, and Irish, but I’d say predominantly German more than anything else.  St Joseph’s Church was founded by the Germans.  Then of course you’ve got Kaufman Studios down on 34th Avenue, you’ve got the famous Steinway Street.  You get quite a lot of religions here too.  You had quite a lot of Jewish people in Astoria.  There were quite a lot of Lutheran churches and schools.  And then down towards Ditmars you have mostly Greeks, the Greek area.   DC: And you have all the old mansions down between here and Astoria Boulevard, you have all the old mansions from the sailing days.  And the old buildings have the captains’ walkways and stuff on the top, where the wives would watch their husbands arrive on the sailing ships.  MD: A lot of people have moved out to the suburbs.  The Germans moved out to Middle Village.  The Italians went out to Whitestone; the Irish went to Lake [xxx].    JO: I used to live in Corona, which was a very good place at one time.  I was born there.  I could tell you every store, everything about Corona.  Then I moved to Jackson Heights, and then I came down here.  I moved here because my mother was getting old then.  She couldn’t climb the stairs any more.  We were in a walk-up apartment, for 20 years.  But we couldn’t stay.  My sister was here and she invited me down.  My sister was with me and she lived to be one hundred.  She came from Ireland, and my father too.   She came in about 1914.  She was going to school; she wanted to be a nurse.  And she used to go at night.  And my dear father, he worked at nights too.  And there was the token booth man at the station.  And my mother would come through there to get on the train and go, and my father too.  And the man behind the booth, he said to my father, you know there’s a nice young Irish girl who comes through here every night, she goes to school.  Maybe you’d like to meet her.  And that’s how my mother met my father!  And they got married.  My mother never became the nurse.  She was a nurse to all of us.  She had six children.  I have a sister who lives in Michigan, another one in Florida.  My brother’s in Connecticut, and I lost one brother, and I’m here, and I have another one in Vermont.  She used to live with me.   DC: We meet here every day.  And if one of us doesn’t show up, the other one will call to see what they’re doing.   JO: We talk and we eat, we talk and we eat  MD: And we tell jokes and we laugh.  JO: Mary tells the greatest jokes.  DC: You can find us here four, five hours a day.  MD: The best thing about 30th Avenue, you’re near to all the conveniences, to shopping, to churches, to the subway.  And you have a wonderful mix of people here.  Which keeps us all grounded.    DC: And you actually know your neighbors.   Bill Nevins (BN): There used to be a lot of bars along this stretch; a lot of bars.  From Steinway to up here I can think of seven bars there used to be here. Now they’re gone, and there are more cafés instead.  There used to be German delis too, in the early 60s.  I came to Astoria in 1960.  I was born in Manhattan, on the Upper East Side. I lived in Long Island, but then they dropped the house.  I moved here with my grandmother.  And we stayed.  I love Astoria.  There are a lot more different ethnic groups now.  Astoria always changes.  Before 1911 we had a lot of mid-western people came here to work.  That’s usually what happens.  When the economy’s good, Astoria turns yuppie again.  But after 1911, there were a lot of young people leaving.  Astoria, it dictates what the rest of Queens does.  These were Matthew flats [off 30th Avenue].  I have a barn in the backyard of my house where they used to keep horses.  When I moved in there 31 years ago they still had the four stalls inside the barn.  What people miss:  MD: I miss Woolworths on 31st.  And the Triboro movie theater.    DC: That had the stars in the ceiling.  It was like the universe when you looked up. It was heartbreaking to see it pulled down.  Now its apartments.  The guy pulled it down overnight.  They knew it was a landmark but they ripped it down.  MD: And Phil’s kosher restaurant on Steinway was great too.  Steinway bakeshop.  Schaller and Weber, all German meats.  Norgards Bakery, down near the train.  Mount Sinai hospital was Astoria General Hospital before.   BN: Actually Mr. Drago [of RP Drago Funeral Homes] built that, Astoria General.  They’d say that he killed them and his son used to bury them.  Mr. Drago has died now.    DC: The old man used to come over here to the church and call out the bingo numbers.  It’s different people managing it, the funeral home, now.  The Matthew flats were built along the railroad routes.   BN: I remember a farm just right here. Dougans Pond.  Danielle Pagliaro (DP): And there’s a guy who has a farm between 43 and 42, he has a farm behind the whole block.  He used to give the food to the nuns.   DC: My ex-wife, we have three kids together.  She lives at 30th and 42nd Street, and she’s got to be, about 61, 62, anyway, she was born in that apartment.  And her father moved there when he was 12 years old.  BN: Ever seen the   movie the Bronx Town?  It was filmed right here.    DC: Up here where La Guardia airport is, that was called North Beach.  I don’t remember that but the old timers talk about it.  They would go swimming up there.  That was like going to the country.  BN: There was that farm, between 21st and 22nd between Broadway and 34th Avenue, and there was an English castle opposite it, with turrets and everything.  And when I did my newspaper round when I was about ten, they gave me that castle to drop the paper off at.  I was afraid.  Then we heard that the guy there died and we became braver.  They tore that down.  DP: We used to have awesome parties.  You used to come outside in the summer and every block had people on the streets, kids.  Whether you lived on this block or that block, people knew who you are.  If you got seen doing something wrong, you’d get caught by the ear and dragged back to your mother.  MD: And one person would have the responsibility for putting on the fire hydrant in the summer.   BN: The schoolyards used to be so much bigger.  There used to be these huge schoolyards when I was a kid.  PS70 – greatest yard anywhere.  MD: At six o’clock on the dot you’d hear the mothers calling, “Jonny, Billy”, get up!    And because there were so many kids on the blocks, you used to have your own baseball team and your own football team, and they played each other.  There is show on Channel 21 every once in a while, called The Street Games of New York.  You never had a kid being bored.  You went out and played, you came in and did your homework, and then you went out and played again.    People used to use boxes and old wheels to make go-carts.  And then there was bobcats, you would put the crayons on top of the bulb to melt the wax.  And Johnny ride the pony.   BN: And the fat kid was always the “pillow”, and the others would line up and charge his stomach.  MD: We had a lady on our block called the witch, because she didn’t want kids playing there  DP: I think every block had a witch. And a cat lady.    BN: These houses, where you go downstairs, that used to be street level.  In my house, you go out the back and you go 15 feet down.  They didn’t dig holes to put the pipes in, they just put them right there. But overall we’re up high here; we’re about 20 feet above sea level.  MD: So we’re safe if there’s a tsunami.   BN: The best time was 1964.  The Mets won at Yankee stadium, there was the exhibition at Flushing.  BN: Steinway Street used to be a very expensive street.  People would come from Manhattan to shop there.  And this was like vacation spot, like being the country.   There used to be a Woolworths.  That was the best store in Steinway.   And the old wooden creaking floors.  You could get anything in there.  You could by goldfish.  Anything.  DP: I used to go with my grandmother to get yarn, just so I could have the meatloaf and apple pie at the counter.    MD: You used to have great ice-cream parlors in Astoria.  Egg creams you had.   BN: These houses you used to have to heat them with coal.  There was the front fireplace and the back fireplace.  You had a space in the basement where you could keep your coal.  My father used to say that if you saw no coal in that space, the people in that apartment were very cold.   DC: You had windows between each room for the ventilation.  All the Matthews had yellow bricks.  That was from Pennsylvania.   