Greg Synsmir 
Professor Hirshon
Surveys and Professional Writing
11/20/18
 			Queens Memory Project: Full Interview Transcription
Date of Interview: November 9th, 2018
Name of Interviewee: Meredith Nieves (maiden name)
Name of Interviewer: Greg Synsmir
Length of Interview: 34:17  
Start of Interview:
Me: So my name is Greg Synsmir and I’m here with Meredith Millington and I guess my first question would be how was your childhood? Like if you had one- like can you describe your childhood for me at all? Where’d you grow up?
Meredith: I loved my childhood which is seemingly rare these days. Umm I grew up in Manhattan, I was born here, my parents were born here. Umm my mom was German, my father was Puerto Rican so everybody always thought that was a really odd mixture of being super-organized and not so much. Umm.. and I’ve never left Manhattan except to go to college. So I spent five years in St. Louis, otherwise I’ve always lived in New York City and on the West Side… Well not on the West side, my first six years were on the East Side and then we moved to the west side. Umm… and my brother as well is here. 
Me: So I know I saw that you mentioned that your father served as a vet in the Korean War?
Meredith: Yeah sorta (Laughter) 
Me: Well what do you mean by sorta? (Chuckles)
Meredith: Umm he was drafted, he was in the (stutters) in the Korean War and he was not very good at behaving and should have gone to battle. But at the last minute they needed somebody with his expertise in Music and entertaining to go to Germany and work with civilians instead. So he actually didn’t see combat even though he is technically a veteran of the Korean War. He worked with civilians and performed and… stuff like that. 
Me: That’s a blessing (chuckles)
Meredith: Yes, no I mean that was a blessing. 
Me: Right, and is that where he met your mother? In Germany or is, no, no    
Meredith: No umm he met her in Maine. In a Gilbert and Sullivan acting company called the “Savoyards.”
Me: Oh okay. And was your parent’s like love for art and music specifically, I know they were both heavily involved with music, did that spark your interest in art at all? Did that (stutters) have anything to do with it? Or they not correlated at all?
Meredith: Umm… I’m not sure. I have loved creating art my whole life. Umm I loved art as a little girl, and when my father saw that I did- my father was a renaissance man. He went to the high school of music and art. Umm which is not called that anymore. Umm and he got in for both, had to choose music cause they made him pick one. But he also studied art on his own and when he saw that I liked art, he started teaching me little things umm, on his own so he taught me about you know light and shade and perspective and things like that. And then I would bring home art works from school and he would say, “Why didn’t you put a shadow on it?” And I would say well we haven’t learned that yet in school. He goes, “But you know how to do it.” I said, yeah but that’s weird (laughs). Umm so I would (pauses) you know I did my own thing at school and most children bring art pieces home and their parents say “Oh it's so beautiful,” and they put it on the refrigerator. And he would actually give me a critique. And it could’ve worked one of two ways, it could’ve made me not want to do art anymore but instead it inspired me to do better. And I always- you know everyone would always say, “what’s your favorite subject in school?” And I would say it art, it’s art, it’s hahaha because it’s not supposed to be. And then when I getting to high school and my favorite subject was still art, I said “okay I gotta do something here.” And when I was… I guess 14 I think? 13 or 14 umm it was the summer and mother said “You cannot do nothing anymore. Get a job, go to camp, something. Don’t sit around the house.” So my father suggested I take a class at the art students league. Umm so he got the catalogue we picked one out, he took me down there and in signing me up they said, “Okay and you know you have to be 16 to come here.” And he looked them straight in the eye and said “She’s 16!” And they said, “Okay!” (laughs) They don’t care. So he.. So he was an inspiration for to keep going with my art umm I don’t know if I just had an artistic gene because of theirs umm but its always been there. 
Me: Wow. And I also saw that a member - you’re the president of the co-op. The Abingson Square Painters co-op right? And you were a member since 1988. So you guys were based in Manhattan before you guys went to Queens?
Meredith: Yes and I’m gonna use my cheat sheet because I’m bad with dates. So the Abingson Square Painters started in 1948. Umm in an apartment on Abingson Square in the West village. Umm by a woman named Harriet Fitzgerald and it was a place for both professionals and students to work together. Umm and learn from each other. Um, then they moved to 14th street, 210… 210? I think so. West 14th between 7th and 8th. Umm they incorporated themselves in 1964 to be 501C3 charitable organization. Umm and they got funded, not entirely but a lot, by umm something called the New York Community Trust. Umm a family called the Phillips family left the Phillips fund for the Abingson Square Painters if they kept their mission of a teaching studio, not necessarily with teachers, but just a place to work and grow and not necessarily be for- it’s not for profit, it’s- you don’t have to be a selling artist. Some people are some people aren’t. Umm and we have to do some community outreach so invite community in to see our work. Umm, I went to Washington University in St. Louis, School of fine art, graduated with a painting degree, came back to New York, had a roommate in one-bedroom with an easel in the living room and my mother said- there was a dance teacher where I went to school- I went to Brearly and my mother taught there and she goes, “You know I think your dance teacher is also a painter and might have a little group of some sort.” So I thought maybe it was a little sketch group that got together in a living room somewhere, so I contacted her and she invited me to this studio called the abingson square painters and explained it all to me. And I had to submit a portfolio of my work and, they accepted me as a member so at first I was just a member and they have an executive committee umm with President, Vice President, Treasurer, Secretary. They have formal meetings twice a year with under Robbers rules with minutes and what not. And as I got more involved I became the Secretary. Umm, and it just sort of grew from there. And it was just this great experience that this woman who taught me dance when I was six years old, is now my peer in an art cooperative. Umm, and we started getting priced out of Manhattan and she started getting older and the director whose name is Gene Marrow- her name is Peggy Anderson (Dance teacher), both started getting older wanting to leave the city, and they just started telling me more, and more, and more, and more and suddenly I realized, “They’re grooming me for this.” Cause I never really wanted to be president of the Abingson Square Painters (chuckles) that was not my goal, I just wanted to paint. Umm but they basically said “we’re leaving and we are passing the torch to you,” so I was like okay… And once they were gone, I think within two years I realized that we did not have the money to stay in our studio. If we stayed, we would have two years and then we’d have to close. And there was nowhere to go in Manhattan umm, and somebody told us about Long Island City so we checked it out, did the math, it was not that hard to get to from Manhattan, so we said “You know what… If we lose some members, we lose some members.” Otherwise we’re done. Umm so in  2010, we moved to Long Island city. It’s our 3rd location, we’ve been in the Long Island City Art Center building since then. But we’re in our 3rd space within the building, and hopefully our last. Umm… and we’re smaller than we used to be but we continue and now that makes us a part of the Queens community. Umm we have some artists from Queens, and it’s I don’t know…. It got me over there and I just love it.
Me: Have you noticed any changes in Long Island City since you’ve been there? Since you guys originally touched down and got there? 
Meredith: Huge.
Me: Huge changes. 
Meredith: Long Island City’s ridiculous (Laughs). Umm we got there, there were other studio buildings. Umm, now I think two of those buildings have been demolished. Uhh, there are high rises going up everywhere. There was nothing there. And now it’s just- I don’t know who’s coming to live because massive expensive Co-ops and condos are growing all over the place and there’s you know, there’s no vegetable store, there’s no dry cleaner, there’s no- there are a few but they’re by the river. But it’s like where- there’s hardly any place to eat that’s worth eating at. Umm, so I’m like  “What are they doing?” So I believe that they are putting up high rises and they’re gonna put all of the amenities on the ground floor or something for people. Or they’re just investment properties, I have no idea. But it’s a little scary cause we don’t wanna get priced out of Long Island city now, uhh and hopefully that won’t happen. 
Me: That was my next question. I was gonna say do you fear getting priced out of Long Island City now that you see- I mean this sounds like gentrification to me but I don’t know.
Meredith: Yeah totally.
Me: Yeah right. And so I don’t know that- if that’s a fear that you guys have in the Co-op at all.
Meredith: We do. Umm, I feel we’ve lived in fear of gentrification forever cause when we were in Manhattan, it was the meatpacking district that suddenly turned into the place to be that eventually priced us out of where we were. It took 20 years, but it happened. Umm, and now it really depends on if the building we’re in, is gonna stay what it is, or if they’re going to try to capitalize on what’s going on around them. I mean it’s supposed to be an art center, it has a school in it, it has dance classes, it has a theatre, and it has a lot of other artists. So they could keep it that way but they have to realize that if that’s what it is you can’t overcharge them. Or if they want to move with the neighborhood and become something else, everyone will leave.  And then I don’t know what will happen (chuckles). 
Me: So is it safe to say- I mean do you like Queens at all? I mean have you liked your time there since you’re there on business. Have you liked your time there since you guys moved there? 
Meredith: I have actually I think about two years after umm, the studio moved there- umm I work for a woman who became my best friend. And we were getting priced out of Manhattan for office space and we were looking for new office space and looking around Manhattan and I go, “We should really look at Long Island City! We should really look at Long Island City! (Laughs)” And event- and she actually lives on the east side and has a car, so for her to get to Long Island City is a hop, skip, and a jump over the 59th street bridge. It’s a lot harder for me. Umm, and she said “Okay, fine.” And we got a realtor and we started looking and we moved to Long Island City and we got three times the space for half the price-or less and we love it. It’s a reverse commute, it’s so calm, you go there and you’re not bumping around people, you wanna go out at lunch and take a walk. Umm, she and I even started running by the river at lunchtime twice a week to get some exercise (laughs). It’s really a nice community. 
Me: But the rapid change, has that changed your opinion of it all? 
Meredith: It hasn’t changed my opinion because I guess since I don’t live there, umm Im not aware if it has changed businesses or not, the small businesses. Like in Manhattan, I’m very aware that there used to be smaller stores, mom and pops, more creative places to go. And now it’s bank, duane reade, bank, bank, duane reade, CVS, supermarket, and that’s about it. Umm, so I don't know if that’s happening yet in Long Island city but.... The landscape is definitely changing. It’s going up. 
Me: Yeah. So, have you taken your family out to Long Island City at all? Like have you ever like explored Long Island City with your family at all and thought about possibly moving there I guess is the question, right?
Meredith: A little bit. Umm, they’ve come to- the studio does an exhibit once a year and they come to that. Umm, after which we have had dinner at times. Umm, I have looked at real estate in Long Island city, cause we would love more space. Umm, and by the time I was doing it, it was already just as expensive as here (chuckles). Uhh, so it unfortunately doesn’t look like that’s gonna happen. 
Me: Right. It sounds like Long Island City is near and dear to your heart so that’s why I wanted to harp on that a little bit. 
Meredith: It’s just- it’s convenient cause you’re there but you’re- so easy to get back into Manhattan. It’s really centrally located.
Me: Right, and so do you paint and you exhibit your artwork for the co-op at all or is it just about everybody else?
Meredith: Yes. No, no, no it’s a- everybody, it’s a working studio. So we’re all members, we all paint there, we have 24/7 access. Umm, a little storage area, and then we share the room. And it’s a cooperative because it’s not an assigned space, it’s not an assigned time. Umm, members are accepted with the thought in mind of when you’re gonna use it. So if we already know the we’ve got half of our members wanting to use it weekday mornings and we have space for another artist, we probably wouldn’t accept one who said, “I’m coming weekday mornings.” Umm, not that they wouldn’t be allowed to, but then they’d sort of have to defer to whoever’s already there. Umm, so yeah we all- I paint there- umm, I paint here too but that’s only cause I get busy with kids and husbands and work but yeah no, I still paint there. We have our exhibit every May.. uhh, (phone rings) I’m sorry.
Me: No that’s okay.
Meredith: (Turns off phone) It’s called spam (laughs). 
Me: Don’t worry about it, it’s fine. (laughs)
Meredith: Anyways, umm, what was I saying? (thinks out loud mumbling) We use to have- when we had our exhibits in Manhattan, we had a lot of people that knew people, friends, family, church members, neighborhood people who would come. And we moved to Long Island city and had an exhibit, and very few people came. So, we had to re-think it and the Long Island city arts organization? (questioning tone) Umm, (daughter comes home) Umm, Long Island City arts association LICA. Umm, they started doing umm, a two week long art event- open art event for Long Island city which involved theatre, dance, art and they had one weekend which was an open studios tour. So, we were like, “okay we need to start having our annual exhibit, the weekend of the open studios tour (laughs). To get new people to come see us.” Uhh, so that’s what we do now.
Me: Right. So, I’m losing my train of thought here (chuckles). Umm, I guess my follow-up question for you in this situation would be when, when you were younger, was there any moment- like ah-ha moment for you where like art, where you knew that art- I know you said that you always loved art, but was there a moment that you can think of like that specifically like you’ll never forget where art- It seems cliche and corny but was there that moment where you ever looked at something and you were like “yeah this is what I want to do,”?  
Meredith: (Long pause) Not to that dramatic degree, I think it was more as I said before that, when it was still my favorite thing to do in high school, when you’re supposed to start thinking about what you’re gonna be when you grow up and college and all of that, that I was like, “I wanna be an artist. I want to paint.” And, that’s when I knew that you know, I wanted to go to art school. I also because I have a German sensible mother, I was raised with that- she didn't have to tell me this- I just said, “It’s risky. So I should get- I should go to a regular college or university, but that has a really good art school in it so that I have the academic backup.” So that’s what I did. 
Me: Right. And so what do you- I know, I read into what you do for a living as a- working in merchandising. But you want to go into that a little bit and explain that? Just what you’re primary source of income would be. 
Meredith: Sure umm, just a little history I.. So after college I first worked for a Art news magazine cause I thought that would be a way to stay connected with the arts. But that was kinda dull. Umm, then I got a job with a company called Schieffelin & Somerset which was umm, it’s a liquor company. Umm, a marketing company and my purpose was, I just wanna work somewhere that’s fun but 9 to 5 so that I can then go and pursue my art after work and on weekends. Umm, so I was just a marketing assistant- basically secretary at work and I was doing that. And then I was getting older and older and I wasn’t getting my wing at the Metropolitan museum yet. That was pissing me off.. Umm, and I had little shows here and there but I was learning that the art world in New York was not what I thought it was. And if you didn’t know somebody umm, it was pretty hard to get anywhere. So, one of the things that they did at this company was you make merchandise for bars and liquor stores to promote the alcohol brands we had. And we had the big ones, we had the johnnie walker, the Moets, the Hennessy, and what not. So I started working on the marketing side of that and then I changed departments there into being the buyer for that stuff. Umm, then the company split and I morphed into the Moet Hennessy company from there. Umm, and I started realizing that I enjoyed the making of the stuff more than just finding the person to make the stuff. Umm, so when it came time to leave there I had now become friends with- I’m having an interview sweetheart thank you (talking to her daughter who came in the room) Umm I didn’t tell her because she wasn’t supposed to be home. Umm, so I spoke to- I had now become very good friends with one of my suppliers. And I said, “I wanna leave here, you need help, can I work for you?” And she said, “Okay.” (laughs) Umm, so I started working with her and at that point we worked on a lot of liquor brands. Umm, making glassware for the packages you see in liquor stores, umm, bar mats, napkins, up to display tables with custom mosaic tables.  We could basically do anything from, “Do you want a pen? Or do you want to draw us a picture and we’ll find someone to make it.” Umm, and then now, we have fewer liquor companies, we still have a few. Umm, but my major client has turned into making the merchandise that they sell at the broadway theaters. So I work with another company as my client and when they get a show, they call me and say, “okay this is what we need done.” And it’s anything from you know, a magnet, something simple to my latest thing is trying to make the plush doll to look like the new King Kong. In the King Kong on Broadway that just got miserable reviews and we’ll never get to produce the guy I’ve been working on for three months, but we’ll see. Umm (chuckles), and all this cute stuff for mean girls and pretty woman and stuff like that. So it’s a way to use an art brain, because its design, and it’s color in that sensibility. It’s not exactly painting. But at least it- it pays bills and it’s.. It can be creative.
Me: Right, I was gonna say it’s relatively connected to your passion, a little bit and that’s the interesting thing about it. And you answered my question- my next question when you said it was a way for you to use your art brain. But umm, would you say that- like is that where you want to be? Like I know it’s probably not an question to answer- or it could be an easy question to answer but like is that where you want to be for the rest of your life? Or is there something else for you- like is there another step in you professional career that you’re gonna take where you’ll head even more into art?
Meredith: It’s probably gonna stay the way it is right now umm, one thing I learned- one of the other reasons I had wanted to work for my friend umm, is corporate America was getting old, umm, I had two little kids, and I didn’t like the stress. And what happens now is- everybody has stress. I’m working on projects, I’m working on deadlines- not everything works out and it’s stressful, but there’s not the stress of, “My boss is gonna get angry, I’m not gonna get promoted- somebody’s gonna take over, I’m gonna get fired.” You know, I have a problem I’m like, “Hi  Linda my best friend, I’m having trouble with this can you help me out?” And she’s like, “Of course I can help you out! Let’s work on it together.” And it’s- So I just find that having that I guess healthy job is more important than the big powerful high-paying one. Umm, and then hopefully you know with my kids- they’re now teenagers you know and don’t really want me around anymore- I can re-focus more energy back into the painting and see where that can take me. You know maybe now I can do something more with it than I’ve done. Umm, but you know I’m getting old-er, so I don’t think there’s gonna be a big career shift.. Unless my husband does something crazy. 
Me: (Laughs) So are you-actually I didn’t ask you about that yet. You transitioned nicely. How did you meet your husband? Did you- we didn’t talk about that I guess it’s a good question?
Meredith: So you want the long romantic story or the quick one? 
Me: (Laughs) whatever you think is best.
Meredith: (Laughs) Umm, there was a restaurant in my neighborhood- actually it’s still there called “Bella Luna,” on Amsterdam avenue and they exhibited artwork of neighborhood people. And I went in there one day and I spoke to the manager and I said “You know I’m an artist, I live in the neighborhood, I’d love to exhibit here.” He looked at my work, he said “This would fit in, you could do that.” We set up a time when I could have a show and I said great okay. Umm and I had a day off from work before this was gonna happen so I went to the restaurant during the day cause I just wanted to measure the walls, figure out what pieces I wanted to bring, and there was this guy working there. The day manager/waiter and I said who I was and he’s like “Alright whatever.” You know and I did my thing and then I had a show up for three months but I never went back during the day, I always showed up nights and weekends. And after three months the show came down, and a couple weeks later my phone rang and this guy said “I worked Bella Luna, I met you a long time ago, and I really liked your art work and I was away when the show came down and there was this one little painting and umm, I’d like to know how much it costs. I think I wanna buy it.” I go “Oh okay. Which one was it?” He says “It was a small one of pears laying on the column by the window.” And I said “The column by wherever?” He goes “Yeah,” and I go “Yeah those are peaches.” I was a still life artist at the time. And he goes “Yeah no it was pears.” I said, “No there’s a SMALL ONE THE BLAH BLAH… I go it was peaches,” and he goes “I really think it was pears.” So I said, “Okay do you live in the neighborhood?” “Yeah,” “Would you like to come over and look at it and see if this is the painting you’re talking about?” He like “Okay!” So he came over, and he goes “Yes that’s the painting.” I said “okay great, those are peaches.” Umm, I gave him a price, he told me that he was in a rock & roll band and they were making a demo and that his money was tight but maybe he could do a payment plan and I said I could do that. And he said “Okay I’ll be in touch,” and I said “Okay.” And I thought this was just a guy coming to buy a painting because I had pretty much decided I was gonna be single the rest of my life and live in that apartment with 25 cats because I’ve had some BAD experiences. Umm, so sure enough he called me and he came over and we did four installments. And he called me on Presidents weekend and said, “Umm, can I give you the third installment this weekend?” I said “Sure.” And then he said, “Oh and I don’t know you’re around or if you like flute music but my friend is playing a flute recital and I have no one to go with. Would you please come with me?” And I said, “I actually used to play the flute so, sure!” And at this point I still had no idea I had just been asked out on a date. I thought it was some heavy metal guy who didn’t know anyone to go with to a classical concert. Until he picked me up and realized- said he wanted to ask me out for a long time. And then I’m like, “It’s a date! Okay!” And I can tell the rest of the romantic story or just let you know that’s how we met. But.. Okay so we went to the concert, his friend actually played umm, a Jazz piece, where I had actually played two of those pieces in the past.. It was a big coincidence. Umm, It was a beautiful sunny day like two days after it had snowed so it was like you had the freezing cold snowy day, now you’ve got those gorgeous winter days that are warm and sunny and the snow’s on the ground. And we were on the east side, the show was over, we decided to walk across the park back to the West Side. Got to the middle of the park and all of the snow turned into slushed and there was this giant puddle of slush- like huge, and I was wearing nice shoes. So he carried me over the puddle. Umm,  when we got back to the neighborhood, we were having such a nice time he said, “You wanna come over for dinner? I could cook you dinner.” I said, “Okay.” He goes, “Alright so give me a couple hours and I’ll get the ingredients and then come over.” So I went over, he cooked me Thai curry and we just went from there. It was just beautiful. And that woman actually played flute at our wedding. 
Me: Wow… That could be a movie (laughs)
Meredith: Stupidly romantic.. (Laughs) So wonderful. 
Me: And what does he do for a living? Is he also a- well I know obviously he’s into music. 
Meredith: He was. He was in various bands and so he always supported his music by working in restaurants and then like me, you start to get to an age where it’s you know- you’re not famous yet and you need more money and he was actually really good at what he did because a lot of working at a restaurant is performing. And he has a great personality with people and he’s a salesman and a showman. Umm, and he just started getting better and better at it umm, and so after we were- well we weren’t married yet- no it was after- yes after we were married he started working for a big restaurant corporation that gave him a lot of management training but they were working him to the ground. And he was miserable and we never saw each other. And I said “Okay look, if you loved what you were doing, I’d let you stay. But you hate it, and we don’t see each other. It’s not worth the money, let’s find you another job.” And we read about something in the New York Times and we had no idea where it was and he went and he reviewed (think she meant interviewed there…) and got the job as an Assistant Manager. It’s a restaurant called Michael’s and it’s a big entertainment industry, media hangout. It’s second restaurant that Michael owns, his first one’s in Santa Monica (CA). So it’s meant for people with the Bi-coastal life. Umm, and after about a year there, umm, he really didn’t get along with the manager cause he was very energetic and he could see how to make things better and he was always offering suggestions and everyone there was sort of like, “If it’s not broke don’t fix it dude. Just calm down.” And he’s like, “Oh but we could be doing this and (makes random noises).” So he went in one day and little did he know the manager was about to fire him, but when Michael heard that, Michael instead fired the manager and kept my husband. And he’s grown to now be- he’s been there 20 years and he’s the general manager and the CFO. Basically Michael’s right hand. And that restaurant is basically filled with umm, modern art. Famous modern art so it’s sort of…
Me: So you’ve never exhibited any art in the restaurant before right?
Meredith: No I don’t think I’d be allowed to umm Michael’s wife is also an artist so she’s got some things up there next to the Hockney's and Duvencords and you know not really… We’ll see.
Me: And so how did you- Oh yeah and coming full circle right? How did you find out about this program? And how did you meet Natalie?
Meredith: I didn’t meet Natalie. Umm there- the director of our studio Tony Bavielia- I don't know where he was- he was at... ughh and I should know because he did email me where he was but he was somewhere where he heard her talk about this program so he went to her and talked to her about the Abingson square Painters. And said, “You think this could be a fit?” And umm, she said absolutely. And so he emailed all of us and said, “I’m going to do this.” He actually also lived in Q Gardens so he really fits. And umm, said “If any other of you want to participate, here’s Natalies information reach out to her directly. And you know it’d be really cool if a bunch of us were cataloged together as- because of the group.” So I don’t know actually who else is doing it, but I said “Okay we’ll have to do this.”
Me: Okay I feel like we’ve covered a lot. You’d agree?
Meredith: Mhmm (nodding her head)
Me: Well I appreciate it.
Meredith: Sure.
Me: And thank you so much for your time.
Meredith: My pleasure, my pleasure                                   
 
         
             
