Queens Memory Project
Oral History Interview Timecode Outline

City:					(Interview done at Jamaica Central)
Neighborhood:			Bayside
Date of Interview:			July 7, 2017 
Time Period:				1960s-2018
Interviewee Date of Birth:		
Name of interviewee:			Thomas Padilla
Name of Interviewer:			Walter Saavedra
Length of Interview:			2 hours, 20 minutes, 26 seconds
Name of Editor:
Editing software:			
Timecode Outline Preparer:		Josselyn Atahualpa

Summary: 	Tom Padilla was born in Queens and grew up in the middle class suburb of Bayside with his mother, uncle and grandfather. He is part of a series of oral histories of Queens College alumni, collected by Queens College. In this interview, Tom tells the story of being a single child raised by a single working mother in the 1960s. He speaks on the little he knew of his absent father and the hole that absence created when he tried to understand his Puerto Rican heritage which ultimately led him to websites like “Ancestry.com” and “23 and Me”. Tom discusses his journey through different jobs, and even that time he volunteered for Assembly member Nily Rozic. Tom has spent almost the entirety of his life in Queens and currently lives with his wife and his old English sheepdog in Bayside. As a longtime resident of Queens he prides himself in the fact that Queens is just as much NYC as the rest of it.


00:00:51*	Tom grew up in middle class suburb (Bayside) neighborhood in Queens near Long Island Railroad, many buses no subways. Raised by a working single mother, lived with grandfather and uncle, many kids on the block. 


00:07:34	Public school for Kindergarten (nearby), Catholic school (4 blocks away) for 8 years. Quiet and shy as a child, prone to being bothered sometimes even bullied by other students. Known as a “sports fanatic” by 8th grade graduation.

00:13:04	Asked about father role in life, but had no comparison. Very clear that there was a grandfather and uncle in the house, but didn’t know what a father figure was. 

00:13:54*	Tom’s mother was youngest of four, brother George who was 8 years older, brother Jim 9 years older, sister Margaret 11 years older. Tom hadn’t met his grandmother. Would hear stories about them and how the grandparents would parent the children. 

00:14:38	Tom’s grandfather was a cop, New York Police Department, Emergency Service Cop for 35 years. Retired when he (Tom) was 3 years old. 

00:18:55*	Raised by mother during the 1960s. Learned to always follow the rules. 

00:20:27*	Grandfather was fun, a “man’s man”. Very muscular, different jobs; longshoreman, built houses, policeman, worked in a factory in College Point when he was in his early 20s, played football semi-pro/sandlot football in early 1920s for the “Warlo Athletic Club”. Grandfather knocked out teeth playing football. Younger days grandfather was adventurous and tough, traveled the country, went cross-country on a motorcycle. 

00:22:40	Grandfather had 9th grade education, asked Tom for support. Taught Tom appreciation of history, encouraged a lot of reading. Mother also didn’t read often, but had friends that taught and helped Tom learn how to read so that when he was in school he was ahead in reading. Mother played different roles; father, mother, friend, sister, etc.

00:25:25*	Mother would only bring up father in negative ways, but only in passing. Would say “sure, walk away, just like your father”. When Tom was 52 & 54 he asked his mother about his father. Mother was a “good catholic” never remarried, never got a divorce, sought an annulment but the church wasn’t cooperative. In 2015 Tom learned that his father’s mother refused to sign some kind of paper that would’ve allowed the church to investigate the charge of abandonment and allow the proceeding for the annulment.  

00:28:57	Father’s mother named Cristina and a brother named Jaime. Tom asked in 2015 about father-did she love him at any point? They got married at their church. She said she couldn’t remember. Tom asked if her father had raped her and she said no. She couldn’t recall if she ever loved him. They had a small basement apartment in Flushing and he would start disappearing, a few days at a time then for longer. Grandfather stepped in and said she should move out and live in the house she had grown up in. She was still pregnant when she moved. Grandfather tried to facilitate a reunion to at least get child support. Bank book from 1960/1961, mother said that Tom’s father paid a few installments of child support and then stopped. 


00:32:22*	All of Tom’s mom’s friends from Bayside all wound up with “Mr. Right” with a “good guy”.  Some moved out the suburbs and they would visit them out in Long Island or in New Jersey. She would stay in touch with high school and elementary school friends, but then they started to die on her. Mother lived to 77 and most of her friends died before her. Eventually mother started drifting and started feeling abandoned by friends. In 2007 the last of her siblings had died so she was alone – no husband, no siblings, no parents, only nieces and nephews who weren’t always there. She got a little depressed. 


00:34:35*	Tom met wife in 2008. Mother passed in 2016. All three had a good relationship.  Wife lost her mother at 20 to cancer. Tom’s mother had a soft spot for people who had lost their mothers at a young age. Tom’s mother went to live with Tom and wife in 2015. 

00:36:24	Interviewer (Walter Saavedra) ask’s what it meant to Tom that his father was Hispanic?  

00:26:27*	Tom thinks a lot about it. Thanks to Ancestry.com and 23 & Me, and DNA tests, Tom was able to create a family tree on his father’s side. He’s able to be in touch with folks that seem to be 2nd or 3rd cousins. Father’s family was from the Western part of Puerto Rico, “Cabo Rojo”. Learning surnames like Ramirez, Ferrar, and Mattos. Tom has always identified as Caucasian, then Caucasian non-hispanic, and now Caucasian Hispanic but still confused. Based on DNA tests he know’s he has about 30% DNA that comes from the Iberian peninsula. Mattos might be more from the Portuguese lineage. Took 3 years of high school Spanish.

00:39:36	Still doesn’t know if he’ll ever inhabit his Puerto Rican heritage because he has no connection. Doesn’t know what he wants from the family tree except to complete a story. Keeps going back in family tree to find where he gets indigenous native blood. Mother’s side is European and southern European. He says he’s white “the whitest guy he knows”. 

00:41:35*	Tom sent an email to the President (Felix V. Matos Rodriguez –a noted Puerto Rican scholar and has been part of Puerto Rican government) of Queens College. Tom has a BA in English from Queens College (1985) introducing himself as he searches for an “intellectual father” to help him understand his heritage but hasn’t been able to tap into. 

00:43:38*	Tom says that when he saw the president’s name in the news, specifically the surnames: Matos & Rodriguez, he was proud. Proud because it looked like names on his father’s side of the family tree. Momentary recognition of something. Tom points out that his family’s been in New York for a long time and that usually it’s Irish or Jewish names that are signed at the bottom of the diplomas, like Murphy or Walsh (Mother’s name). Nice to see someone with a name similar to his (Tom’s) family’s name graduate from Queens College. Wrote this email to the president the day of this interview. 

00:46:32	Walter Saavedra (interviewer) asks what Tom feels about Hispanic people.  

00:46:38	Depends on the person! Says Tom. He hopes he doesn’t see color first. Walter Saavedra say’s that Tom forget that he (Walter) is Hispanic. Tom says that he actually thought Walter was Indian. Tom says that Walter, during an “in the Vaults” event, talked passionately about being an immigrant and that moved Tom. Tom says that he doesn’t want to be that person that says “some of my good friends are Hispanic”, but has had one or two. Raul Arroyo is one of those who he met at a one-time girlfriend workplace. They talked about literature and almost moved in together. Raul had a thick accent, but you could understand him perfectly. Raul would talk about Peru about the political situation, about when he used to live in Peru. Currently has no friends that are immigrants from Spanish-speaking countries (except to an extent, Walter Saavedra). 

00:50:23	When Tom sees the names of some of his online cousins through 23 & Me he sends them a small email to see if they may have common ancestors. Some of those still live in Puerto Rico some are moving to the U.S. Has one online cousin that was moving from the Dominican Republic to Texas, they exchanged emails through website. Tom read Junot Diaz, great Dominican author would like to read more, specifically Puerto Rican literature. Goes back to emailing the Queens College president and asking for literature recommendations. Even asked if he should travel to Puerto Rico maybe to San Juan or even to Cabo Rojo. 

00: 53:04* 	Walter Saavedra, interviewer, asks what is the reason for the curiosity to travel to Puerto Rico. Tom says he’s always been curious—doesn’t know if it’s an ancestral call to go to the motherland. He’s thought about visiting Europe too, Ireland, Germany where his DNA comes from too. At some point his second great grandparents or third great grandparents in the middle of the 19th century made the trip to Newtown Township, the section that became Corona. After living in Williamsburg, Brooklyn for some years. We just don’t live long enough to explore our history. Third great grandmother born 1820 died in 1920 six months short of being 100. Died in Corona, used to live near what is now known as Park of the Americas. Now it’s so different. All the old houses are gone, there’s astro-turf and a baseball diamond. Tom says he thinks about Germany about Ireland, England where his mothers-mothers-father’s family came from in the 1830s to settle on Long Island from Kent, England where they were stonemasons. Tom has a second cousin who he met through Ancestry.com who recently passed. His wife is a Mormon and they both have a lot of curiosity about geneology also. They went to England and went to Parish churches and took photographs of records that belonged to their common ancestors.  Eastons living in Pembury, Kent England, Southeast England. Tom says that he’s curious about Puerto Rico because he’s also curious about England, Germany, Ireland. Tom says that his ancestors had all been immigrants at some point from somewhere else. 

00:59:34	 Tom says historical record shows that there were 7 big family groups that were born out of different parts of Africa. If you go all the way back there might be 7 common ancestors to the population of this world. 

01:00:25	The people that were here before anyone else, the Native Americans. The Mattinecock who came to Long Island, the Lenape, the Delaware Nation, etc and even before them and the migration that led them out here, there might have been more indigenous peoples that got here. We don’t know. Tom says he’s just curious, he’s just trying to learn about himself to find himself.  

01:02:10	 In the 1970’s the show Roots came out. Got a lot of people interested in their geneology. 

01:02:32*	Walter Saavedra asks if Tom found himself. Tom says yes, says that his grandfather used to say “I know where I am, I know where I’m going, I know where I’ve been” he was talking about hippies. Tom says he knows where he is…and who he is. Walter asks Tom: “who are you?” very assertively Tom says he’s “Thomas Anthony Padilla, resides in Oakland Gardens, Queens  New York City, New York, United States of America, Earth”. Walter says that’s not him, that’s just the places where he lives. Tom agrees says that it’s not him but it gives him a sense of who he is, gives him a place to start. Tom says there aren’t a lot of places he could see himself living in if someone said that he couldn’t live there. If there were a forced relocation he wouldn’t have a “home” would feel displaced. About 100 years ago people were born, lived, and died in the same place. Now things are changing so fast, people before didn’t really have options to move around, there weren’t even that many cities. 

01:06:30	 Tom writes when he can’t explain a feeling. Tom says he and his wife are planning to buy a vehicle to travel the northern United States and maybe Canada.  They don’t like warm weather don’t like humidity. Tom’s wife traveled a lot more when she was a teenager and in college, more than Tom ever did. He didn’t go to camp in the summer, didn’t go to New Orleans for Mardi Gras, Tom always stayed in the neighborhood. Some people would say that he’s lived a sheltered life, but would argue that’s not the case. You can go wherever you want to with your mind. Not in a transmigration way, not in a mystic way. “If you can dream it be it”

01:09:14	Tom has friends in California, hasn’t traveled west of the Mississippi. Traveling, the experience, is good. Likes to think that he’s not rigid, not stuck here in Queens. If finances were to allow he would go somewhere, would travel. He still wants to have a homebase, a hotel, an RV. Doesn’t know if he could…live in a small town like Wichita, Kansas. Tom’s wife might want to move to Maine, Tom open to it. 

01:11:40	What is friendship for you, ask Walter Saavedra. Friendship is everything, you can’t it with you like material goods says Tom. Tom says hopefully one day he’ll be able to look back on 3 or 4 friendships (apart from family) and say “oh I lived, time to go”. Tom’s mom encouraged Tom to have a lot of different friends and different hobbies. Friendship to Tom means memories and having experienced a common life. Two people who were alive at the same time and shared that time together. Tom’s bestfriend hasn’t lived in NYC since 1996, now is in California, but they talk all the time. Tom says he wouldn’t be as rich as person without his friend and his partner who both live in California. All three have known each other for 22 years or something like that. Tom has friends that he’s been friends with since he was 4 years old.

01:19:38*	 Tom talks about Assembly member Nily Rozic, she’s great. Young man doorknocking and ends up at Tom’s door campaigning for Nily. Tom didn’t know much about his representatives so was open to hearing from this young man. Tom had just left a job at CNN that he’d had for 12 years where he wasn’t allowed to work for, contribute to political candidate, nor express political views in an open forum. If you did you might get disciplined or even fired. He had left that job a few months before and was now interested in getting involved in a grassroots campaign. Tom wanted to fight for something.  

00:34:38*	Nily didn’t have that much experience except working for a city council rep in Manhattan doing the outreach. Nily was a Townsend High School graduate. Tom wanted to volunteer and was interested in the campaign. Even went to Nily’s house for a phonebanking night and made calls to people that live in the district who were registered as Democrats. Did it for a few months, a couple of days a week, but he liked it! He had just gotten knee surgery and wasn’t looking to get a job that quickly. Nily won that campaign by 500 votes and won again multiple times after that. He hadn’t been involved in politics before and was hesitant of politicians because he knew many were unethical and corrupt, especially in Albany. Working Families Party contacted him a few times after, but Tom wasn’t interested. Tom says he’s waiting for another candidate that would get him motivated and would make him feel comfortable. Tom wishes he were more involved and thinks it’s important to be an engaged citizen of this country. 

01:30:06*	“Half of America doesn’t even vote, but my (Tom’s) grandpa took him into the voting booth since he was 7 or so. Would have me pull the levers and everything.” Imprinted in Tom that voting was important. 


01:31:20*	People that volunteer with political candidates usually have a history of being involved or come in through unions. Tom is happy that Nily is in Albany. Saavedra asks how Tom know Nily as a person and as a politician. Tom says he doesn’t really care about someone being “progressive” that doesn’t mean anything. Tom appreciated that Nily was interested in doing public good and fought for improved bus service. Tom says it showed him that Nily cared because not a lot of other politicians would care about the buses. 

01:34:50*	Tom says that you can become complacent when you start hearing about policies that don’t directly affect you, especially when policies come from Albany. Tom says he wants to care more and listens more closely to hyper-local news either on Facebook or on local newspapers like DNA Info and Patch Bayside. Tom would read articles about issues closer to home because “all politics is local”. Local news, community news is important. 

01:36:06*	Tom speaks to changing demographics in district, in Bayside. Says that Nily had at least one volunteer that could speak Mandarin Chinese and maybe Cantonese because the district is over 50% Asian and a percentage of them are able to vote, they’re an important demographic. The other candidate didn’t care and in fact the wife of the other candidate disparaged non-English speakers. District no longer predominantly Italian-American. 

01:39:24*	Tom points out that folks that have been in the area will look down on new immigrants for not being able to read or speak English. Xenophobia is common, not always, but happens. Politicians will use fear to their advantage sometimes and prey on the fears of the constituents. Nily was born in Israel, lived in Argentina and speaks Spanish.  

01:43:04	Tom sees himself as a writer. At one point had a handful of poems published, they were about policing. Would take poetry workshops and was sad when he didn’t take any workshops. It’s now over a year since his mother has passed. Tom is in the process of writing a story based on a family story. Tom likes writing fiction.  

01:45:20	Tom has given himself until Sept. 1st 2018 to have a book proposal. Something that would interest and agent to sell to a bonafide publishing house. Tom is focused on researching and writing. 

01:47:05*	Tom is asked who he is by Saavedra. After a long pause Tom says he’s a man. A heterosexual man in a monogamous marriage with a woman he loves and a 75 pound old English sheepdog, living in a two bedroom apartment. Tom also likes to think that he’s a “good” man. Thinks in terms of good and bad, he learned that from his mother and catholic teaching. However he’s not “black and white” because he sees shades of grey. He is a moral relativist [laughs]—what’s good for one person is not good for another person. 

01:50:33	Walter Saavedra asks if Tom likes adventures. Tom reacts hesitantly and says that depends.  

01:52:00 	Tom identifies himself as more risk-averse, but sometimes he surprises himself.

01:55:19*	 Tom started going to the YMCA and working out. Prevent health problems. 

01:58:23*	Walter Saavedra asks how Tom thinks immigrants have influenced New Yorkers. Tom says that there are two types of New Yorkers: some that have lived in one of the five boroughs for more than one generation. They usually do work in service or public safety like policing or firemen. Then there’s the young people that graduated from college and moved to New York. Tom says we’re all from somewhere else, unless we’re not. We either came from another country or another state. We all have to get along, we don’t have to love each other but we have to be civil. 

02:02:10*	There are new people to New York all the time. There are New Yorkers that have been here for a long time. There are New Yorkers that want to help those new people and there are people that don’t help. Sometimes New Yorkers help, but sometimes New Yorkers don’t need help.  

02:03:47*	When there’s something big happening, like something happens on the subway the people who respond and who don’t are mixed, sometimes people are drawn together and forced to interact. Tom doesn’t think New Yorkers as a rule are intolerant, if anything Tom thinks that New Yorkers are more tolerant of any ethnic or religious background than in other places. There are troublemakers, there are people that are on medication, and there are people that need someone to explain to them what’s wrong. Those people have generally not been raised to respect other people. 

02:06:05	Tom says everything is on camera nowadays. Bad people that need to be made accountable for their hateful actions. If someone attacks someone for being Muslim or does anything hateful to express hate, that needs to be dealt with. Tom says police get a bad reputation—some police are good some police are bad. 

02:07:58*	Walter asks what is Queens for Tom. Tom says Queens is home, Queens is New York City not Long Island. Queens is parks and cemeteries, world’s fair grounds, and Citified (used to be known as Shea Stadium), the New York Mets, and airports. Tom says that Queens can have a generic feel. Sometimes people overlook it and just refer to it as Queens, not specifying the neighborhood. Tom points out that Jamaica to the early Dutch settlers was called Rustdorp, found that out a couple of weeks ago looking at the history of Jamaica. Tom says that this space (Queens Central Library) gathers people, books, and resources. Tom says libraries (he’s worked at libraries and at news libraries) are at the center of communities. Tom says he feels safe in a library, not that he feels threatened anywhere. Feels like he’s at home when he walks into a Queens Library. Queens Libraries gather a diverse population for the purpose of learning and sharing information, which gets Tom excited. Tom likes when libraries are open 7 days a week, and when they are open 12 hours a day. Tom says library cut-backs are bad! A lot of Tom’s friends are libraries and he respects them a lot. Librarians are important because they’re cataloguing everything and making things accessible to the community. 

02:13:26	Tom asks where the interview lives once they’re done? How is it a part of Queens Memory?  

02:01:41*	Walter says: Queens Memory is a project that tries to understand people from Queens and learning about their lives at different points in time. Walter’s particular interest is to know what a “New Yorker” is and what a “Queens” resident is. Walter wants to know what people in Queens feel and think. 

02:15:25 	Tom is curious about interviewing Walter, but more interested in Queens Memory—what can he gain from it? Tom knows Queens Memory through its Facebook account. Tom reached out to a Queens Library archivist because he wanted to buy a map. Tom has wanted to see the archives for almost 30 years. Tom has known a few people that have worked at the Library. The last time he came to the library to just sit down and read was in 1996, and was consumed by poetry. 

02:18:26*	Tom only started driving, really driving, 5 years ago. He can get to the Central library really easily taking the Q30, he used to take the bus to take him to the Long Island Rail Road or the E & F. Tom has a friend (Ben, who he’s known since college in 1980) that works the circulation desk at the Langston Hughes library in Corona, Queens. That friend used to work for Tom when he managed a book store. Tom says the Langston Hughes library is a real jewel and he wants to go and surprise his friend one of these days. 





				

