
Queens Memory Project
Oral History Interview Timecode Outline

City: 				Jackson Heights
Neighborhood:	 	
Date of Interview:	 	March 12, 2018
Time Period: 			1960 - 2018
Interviewee Date of Birth: 	October 24, 1960
Name of Interviewee: 	Pauline Park
Name of Interviewer: 		Fran Kipnis 
Length of interview: 		02 hr. 01 minutes and 49 seconds
Name of editor:
Editing Software:
Timecode Outline Preparer:	 Fran Kipnis

Summary:	

00:00:03	This is a Queens Memory Program interview with Pauline Park, at 67-71 Yellowstone Blvd., Forest Hills, NY. It is March 12, 2018 at 6:25 PM.

00:00:51	Pauline was born October 24, 1960. She was born in Korea and adopted at seven and one-half months by European American parents. Her father is a second-generation Norwegian-American and her mother is a fourth-generation German American. Pauline grew up in Milwaukee and lived in the same house from the time she was adopted until she turned 18 years old.

00:01:35	Pauline attended South Clement Ave. School, Fritsche Jr. High School and Bay View High School, in Milwaukee. She graduated high school in 1978.  She attended the University of Wisconsin-Madison. During her fourth year of college, Pauline studied abroad in London (1981-1982). She then completed her master’s degree in European Studies at the London School of Economics (1982-1983). She spent five years working and then went back for her Ph.D. in Political Science at the University of Illinois at Champaign-Urbana.

00:03:02	Pauline spent 17 years in her childhood home in Milwaukee. She then lived in Madison, but always wanted to live abroad. She had an opportunity to study abroad in London.  She studied in London from 1981 – 1983. London is a gigantic, world city and very different from Milwaukee and Madison.  After studying in London, she came back to the U.S. and lived in Chicago (1983-1988). Pauline then lived in Champaign-Urbana for five years while working on her Ph.D. During this time, she spent two months in Berlin (1990) at the time of formal unification; she was in the crowd of two million people and strode through the Brandenburg Gate at midnight when reunification was celebrated in the Tiergarten. She returned to Champaign-Urbana. She then spent a dissertation year (1991-92) in Europe, living in Regensburg, Germany (summer 1991), Brussels (fall 1991) and Paris (spring 1992). She returned to Champaign-Urbana and finished her dissertation. She then taught for one-year at a college in Lake Forest, a suburb of Chicago. She then moved to NY, living on Staten Island for a year and one-half. Her final move was to Queens in 1997. She has lived in Jackson Heights since January 1997, in the same apartment.  

00:07:37	When Pauline was living in Staten Island, she was looking at different neighborhoods in Brooklyn. Even in 1997, Brooklyn, was too expensive.  She looked in Queens and found an apartment in Jackson Heights.  She was attracted to Queens and Jackson Heights, in particular, because she was already organizing in Queens while living in Staten Island.  She had been invited to help co-found Queens Pride House. Jackson Heights is the epicenter of the Queens LGBT community. Queens Pride House moved there in 2006. Queens is home now, and Jackson Heights is really home. 

00:09:11	In the past 20 years, the neighborhood has gotten more diverse. Every year it is a little more LGBT.  It has gotten more expensive because of gentrification, but it is still reasonable compared to other areas in NYC.  Not only is it the most diverse neighborhood in Queens, but Queens is the most ethnically diverse county in the United States, and in the world. There are about 84 different languages spoken at home by students attending PS 69. There are 167 languages spoken in the borough. It is the only one of the five boroughs with a majority immigrant population.  This makes the neighborhood so attractive and stimulating. There is wonderful food including the best Indian restaurants in the City.  Pauline lives near the Little India Section (2 block stretch of 74th Street, between Roosevelt and 37th Ave.). There are Mexican and Columbian restaurants. There is a great health food store on 37th Avenue. There is a profusion of different things to see and do in Jackson Heights and Queens.

00:12:01	Pauline lives in a standard, six-floor, brick, coop building. It is well maintained. What she loves about her apartment is it has hardwood floors. The most noteworthy features are a piano, and many books (looks like the Stand bookstore). Pauline grew up with music but had not played the piano for 25 years. About 10-11 years ago she decided to play the piano again and bought an upright piano.  She tries to play every day.  When Pauline and her brother were seven years old, they were given the choice of a vacation or a piano and they chose a piano. They took piano lessons. Pauline’s mother was very musical.

00:15:02	Pauline owns her apartment. When she moved in, she was a sub-tenant.  The landlord was a shareholder and a crook. The coop board foreclosed on the 12 apartments he owned. It was an unexpected opportunity to buy the apartment at a discount. 

00:15:58	Pauline co-founded Queens Pride House in January 1997. There were preliminary meetings in the summer and fall of 1996. In January 1997, they met at Elmhurst Hospital and considered that meeting the founding board meeting. Pauline is one of two founding board members still involved in the organization. Seven to eight LGBT activists in Queens wanted to start a community center. Manhattan had one, none of the other boroughs had one. They felt it would be nice not to go to Manhattan and would be good to foster a sense of LGBT community in Queens.  The City is very ‘Manhattan centric’ and this is particularly true in the LGBT community. Queens Pride House was the first effort to establish an LGBT Center in the outer boroughs.

00:17:43	In the fall of 1997, Pride House had an office in Queens Borough Hall. They then moved to a store front in 2001 on Woodside Avenue, between 67th and 68th Street. The storefront was across the street from a laundromat, and Chinese and Korean Christian churches.  There were no issues from the neighborhood. There was only one incident of anti-gay graffiti during the entire time the Queens Pride House was there (in 2001). It was a storefront with glass windows right on the street, saying LGBT Center.

00:19:09	In 2006, the Center moved to their current location on 37th Ave. in Jackson Heights, 2nd floor (76-11 37th Avenue). Pauline was on the Board from 1997-1999, 2001 – 2004, and again since 2010. She was elected President of the Board in 2010 and served as Executive Director from May 2012 to July 2015. 

00:20:24	The biggest change in 20 years is that Queens Pride House now has its own space and paid staff.  When Pride House started, it was all volunteer. Their first grant was from New York State to start a referral program that is still operating today. It is Pride House’s oldest funded program. It refers clients to LGBT supportive health care, social service providers, lawyers, and other service providers.  Pride House ensure that the referrals are LGBT friendly. If there are no appropriate referrals in Queens, clients are referred to Brooklyn and Manhattan. 

00:21:40	The biggest program now is the condom distribution programs. Pride House distributes 50,000 condoms a month in western Queens, a crucial aspect of HIV prevention.  

00:22:05	Pride House also runs support groups. Pauline has coordinated the transgender support group since February 2011.  It is one of the most vital aspects of Pride House’s operations because it helps change lives. Every meeting, the group helps people across the gender spectrum come out and identify their gender. The group includes transgender people, transsexuals, cross dressers, and gender queers. Other support groups in the City say they are open to everyone, but Pride House’s is unique as it is really gender-queer friendly. Other Centers are more gender specific and more focused on medical interventions. The Pride House support group is non-directive and non-directional and provides a warm, supportive environment for people to explore their identity and find resources to help their gender journey. The group helps with many issues – families, partners, marriages, children, parenting, and reproductive issues. Other issues include coming out, coming out on the job, transitioning at the workplace, families, street harassment, discrimination, police harassment, and brutality. The group is very diverse, both demographically and in gender identity. It has a majority people of color which is also unusual. It is vital and life-saving work.

00:27:11	One member who transitioned through the group was suicidal.  She went to the George Washington Bridge. With help from the group, she pulled back from the brink.  The group saved her life.

00:27:58	People come from all over the borough to attend the group.  They also come from Manhattan, Brooklyn, Bronx, and NJ, because it is such an open group. 

00:28:26	When Pauline was Executive Director, she organized a series of public forums. This helped bring people to Queens Pride House from within and outside of the  LGBT community. They co-sponsored a forum on diversity with the Diversity Project. The forums covered expected and unexpected topics. After the Edie Windsor Supreme Court (same-sex marriage) victory, there was a forum on the future of LGBT rights. Other forums included HIV AIDS, and path-breaking topics such as police-community relations, human trafficking of Asian women in Queens, and the Israeli occupation, which drew the ire of the Queens Chronicle. Pauline thinks that LGBT community centers should engage in controversial political topics. Not many do so, denying the discussion of important issues.

00:33:30	The transgender community is unusually fragmented in terms of age, race, class, immigration status, needs, challenges, and languages spoken (non-English speaking).  Some are sex workers (some by choice and others because of few economic options).  Reaching all the elements of the community is a challenge. Pride House does it reasonably well but could do better. For example, they are located a few blocks from Little India but do not have a large number of South or East Asian clients. 

00:36:35	One of the ways Pride House reached a lot of people in the past was through their mental health program, which they are considering reviving. They had a staff person who supervised social work students. They recruited students from social work schools, such as Hunter College, NYU, community colleges, private colleges, and Columbia. The students provided counseling for members of the community. It was one of best programs and a major service to the community.

00:38:08	Queens Pride House has provided public events and fun events (Valentine Day parties), open houses during the Queens Pride Parade, and an annual benefit event to celebrate anniversaries of Queens Pride House. 

00:38:00	In 2002, Pauline founded the Guillermo Vazquez Independent Democratic Club of Queens. The Club operated until 2004. She thought there needed to be a political club in Queens that was independent of the Democratic Party organization. There was another LGBT Democratic Club connected to the party machine that Pauline did not think was speaking for the community. She brought together a number of people. They had a successful launch, covered by the NY Daily News and Newsday (Queens edition).  Their events drew capacity crowds. (Pauline then described an event that she remembered was actually through Queens Pride House, 2001.) There was public forum on diversity, focused on women and people of color running for elective office in Queens. The event managed to bring together a number of interesting people, many of whom won races for office - Helen Marshall, former Queens Borough President, John Liu, the first Asian American to win office in 2001, and Hiram Monserrate, the first Latino elected to public office in Queens. 

00:43:06	The goal of the Club was to bring together really interesting people, spark some good interactions between the LGBT community, candidates and incumbents, and make sure LGBT issues were on their agenda.  There was a real commitment to progressive politics. There was internal conflict in the Club and it fell apart. It lasted two years but had an impact.

00:44:05	At the same time (2001), Pauline was involved in co-founding Out People of Color Political Action Club. This was the first political club by and for LGBT people of color in New York City.  Doug Robinson (gay African American), who was a member of Stonewall Democratic Club, felt that Fernando Ferrer was not getting a true hearing from the LGBT Democratic Clubs (Stonewall, Gay and Lesbian Independent Democrats GLID, Lambda Independent Democrats of Brooklyn) while running in the 2001 Mayor’s race.  The three other candidates were white. The Club endorsed Ferrer and for a few years the group had an impact. Pauline became co-president.  In 2001, they endorsed Julia Willebrand, the Green Party candidate, for mayor. This was controversial. In the beginning, they had to decide if the Club would be a Democratic club or independent and they narrowly voted to be an independent, non-partisan club. 

00:46:54	Pauline has been involved within and outside Democratic Party politics. She thinks there are serious problems within the Democratic Party. According to Pauline, the Queens party machine dominates the politics of the borough. It is not always advantageous for the LGBT community or communities in color to be in lock step with the party.  One of the issues is the structure of primary elections in NYC, requiring petitions. Petition gathering gives the county-based party machine an inordinate amount of power over candidate selection. Insurgent candidates rarely win. There is a very high rate of incumbency in New York for the State Legislature. 

00:49:16	Pauline spoke at a forum in January 2018 with the Queens Anti-Gentrification Project. Gentrification is a serious LGBT issue, as LGBT people are getting priced out of their neighborhood. The forum occurred before the City Council speaker election. At the forum, it was discussed that the Chair of the Queens Democratic Party has named all but one Council speaker. It happened again in 2018. Even though there is an openly LGBT speaker of the City Council (Corey Johnson), Pauline does not believe that this guarantees progressive or independent leadership. Big money interests have a disproportionate influence on public policy. The existing party machines are plugged into and can co-opt various communities, such as LGBT people, women, and people of color. 

00:51:54	Pauline is willing to work with Democrats. She did so when she led the campaign for the City Transgender Law in 2002 which she is best known for (discussed later in the interview). This effort involved working with city officials, mostly Democrats on the City Council. Political parties are viable only if they advance a progressive policy agenda. The Democratic Party has value only if it is working to address a progressive policy agenda. Sometimes it works against this. Pauline has the most affinity for the Green Party, but third parties do not win elections. It is always a balancing act between ideals and gritty reality. Principled people do not always deal with reality, and political operatives sometimes lose their principles.  

00:55:36	In 2013, there was a lot of pressure in the LGBT community to support Christine Quinn, running as the first Lesbian mayor.  Pauline did not support her. That type of identity politics can be limiting.  Representation is important, but you also need structural/political change. 

00:57:38	Pauline has friends and colleagues who are doing really good work. Her mentors are not necessarily based in Queens. She most admires Charlie Ober, another founding member of Queens Pride House, who has lived in Ridgewood, Queens for decades. He is involved with many organizations, including the Ridgewood Democratic Club, the Ridgewood Property Owners and Civic Association, and the Guillermo Vazquez Independent Democratic Club. She also admires Michael Synan, who works with the Queens Anti-Gentrification Project and Nancy Agabian, a bisexual writer of Armenian descent who lives in Jackson Heights.

01:00:33	Pauline stated that she is most associated with founding Queens Pride House and NYAGRA (New York Association for Gender Rights Advocacy). Leading the campaign for the City Transgender Rights Law was the greatest honor and accomplishment of a lifetime. 

01:01:22	In May 1998, Pauline went to Washington DC for a transgender lobby day with a friend from Brooklyn. On the drive back, her friend said we could do this in NY. At the time, there was no sustained transgender advocacy organization in NY. In June 1998, they called together seven activists and called the group NYAGRA (New York Association for Gender Rights Advocacy).  They met in David Valentine’s apartment.  They decided to work on legislation. They focused on two areas – discrimination and hate crimes. SONDA (Sexual Orientation Non- Discrimination Act) and a state hate crimes bill were pending in the NYS legislature.  NYAGRA met with the Empire State Pride Agenda (ESPA). They referred NYAGRA to the coordinator of the state hate crimes bill coalition in regard to transgender inclusion.  This coalition ultimately decided not to include gender identity and expression in the legislation. That legislation finally moved in June 2010. 

01:05:36	In regard to discrimination, NYAGRA told ESPA they wanted gender identity and expression added to SONDA. SONDA had been pending for 30 years, locked in the NYS Senate controlled by Republicans. When NYAGRA showed up, this became a fly in the ointment, as it had been hard enough to recruit Republicans to pass a gay rights bill. In 1998, transgender identity and expression was new and very cutting edge. The ESPA suggested an alternative - working together on a local, NYC bill.

01:07:11	They started work on what became the transgender rights bill. At the time, Pauline was a very private person and did not want to become a public figure. But as no one was stepping up, Pauline realized she had to lead, making her a public figure. In February 2000, they held a press conference on the steps of City Hall to announce the campaign. This was the beginning of her profile as a public figure.  She would interact with the City Council and the media. It was a real education.

01:08:52	She did not learn how to do this through her Ph.D. in Political Science. Academic learning is not as relevant. This campaign was learning by doing, learning how politics really works. Pauline stated that elected officials are politicians and politicians are self-interested. Pauline got involved in major power struggles, including what order the six sponsors would be listed in the bill. She worked this out with Tim Sweeney, the Deputy Executive Director of Queens Pride House. Bill Perkins, African American (Harlem) was listed first then Margarita Lopez (first lesbian in City Council), then Christine Quinn, and three others.

01:12:58	A lot went on behind the scenes. There was a power struggle over who would run the campaign. Pauline and Tim Sweeney (ESPA) ran the campaign together. She also learned a lot from Tim (Sweeney) and Matt Foreman.  There were disagreements. Peter Vallone, Sr. (Astoria), speaker of the City Council at the time, and Mayor Guiliani opposed the bill. What got the bill through was term limits for these two officials.  Mike Bloomberg became Mayor, Gifford Miller became City Council Speaker, and Bill de Blasio became the new chair of the General Welfare Committee. Pauline worked closely with de Blasio and Miller to fast track the bill. When it came to the Mayor’s desk, it was said that Bloomberg hesitated. However, the bill had passed 45-5 and the Council would have over-ridden his veto, so he signed it.  The bill passed on April 24, 2002 and on April 30 there was bill ceremony at City Hall. That was Pauline’s proudest accomplishment.	 

01:16:28	The outcome of the hate crimes bill coalition was different. They were not able to persuade the coalition to include gender identity and expression. Pauline worked with Ross Levi, Legislative Director at the Empire State Pride Agenda, to get the state Attorney General (Elliot Spitzer) to issue an opinion saying that transgendered people were covered under the state’s hate crime law that had recently been enacted.  However, it was up to the local District Attorneys to decide to prosecute.  

01:19:02	Pauline did this work through NYAGRA. The Transgender Rights Bill was the most successful accomplishment. NYAGRA was the first transgender advocacy organization in New York State. Pauline raised $175,000, enough to hire paid staff and build an infrastructure. In 2002, they had a major crisis when a staff person conspired with the fiscal sponsor to steal over $150,000 in grant funding. Loyal members of the Board prevailed, but this caused dissension and the organization imploded. Pauline was able to get more funding and re-established the organization. One learns from conflict and failure. Now NYAGRA is a much smaller organization which is not funded and serves primarily as a platform for Pauline to do her transgender advocacy work. The organization did not meet Pauline’s original vision but was the vehicle for the enactment of the Transgender Rights Law. Pauline also decided she did not want to do all the organizational fundraising by herself. From 1999-2002, it did put transgender on the map. None of the organizations in the City were talking about transgender inclusion at the time.

01:23:56	One of the offshoots of NYAGRA was a short-term project Pauline conducted with Sheila Lambert (bisexual activist) called the Coalition for Unity and Inclusion. The goal was to get all major organizations, to rename themselves LGBT. At the time in 2001, organizations were named ‘lesbian and gay’, or just ‘gay’. A number of organizations endorsed the campaign.  The Center name was changed from the Lesbian and Gay Community Services Center, to the LGBT Community Center of NYC.  It was a big deal. Name changes also included the New York LGBT Film Festival and the LGBT Pride March and Rally. The Gay and Lesbian Anti-Violence Project is now the Anti-Violence Project.  In 2018, every organization calls itself LGBT or some version of that.

01:28:11	In 2002, Pauline remembers Betsy McCaughey Ross, the Lt. Governor, say LGBT on the radio. Pauline realized they were succeeding. Now, even Republicans say LGBT; it is very mainstream.   

01:29:33	Pauline continues to serve as the coordinator of the transgender support group at Queens Pride House. She is writing. Since 2011, she has been involved with Palestinian solidarity work. That is her most controversial work.  This issue was not originally on her agenda. In February 2011, the LGBT Center in Manhattan banned Palestine organizing as well as any discussion of Israel/Palestine. The Siege Busters Working Group, advocating to lift the Gaza Strip siege, was meeting at Center. They wanted to do an event for ‘Israeli Apartheid Week’. They decided to rent space at the Center, strictly as a rental agreement.  When Michael Lucas (Lucas Entertainment) found out about it, he wrote a letter to Glennda Testone, Executive Director, threatening to organize a boycott of donors. Testone consulted with the Center Board and decided to ban the group and cancel the event. The group was not asking the Center to endorse the event. 

01:32:36	This was considered an act of censorship by many members of the community, even those that did not support the Palestinian issue. The Center held a community forum in March 2011.  Pauline attended the forum. Pauline made a point about how the Center had not always been fully inclusive. 

01:34:30	After the forum, Pauline ran into friends from the Siege Busters Working Group. They did not feel that what the Center leadership had said was credible. They decided to start NYC Queers Against Israeli Apartheid. (QAIA). This launched Pauline on a new trajectory, by happenstance.

01:35:36	Pauline never thought she would be an activist - she thinks of herself as an accidental activist and this work was the most accidental of all. The Center first rented QAIA a room for a business meeting, then 24 hours later, Michael Lucas said he would organize a boycott of city and state funding of the Center. The Center then banned the group.  Pauline and the group started a two-year campaign to overturn the ban. They organized an occupation of the Center in March 2012. Two hundred people participated in the occupation and they received significant press coverage.  There was an article in the Gay City News and the Village Voice (written by Tim Murphy). Pauline was ‘persona non grata’ at the Center. 

01:37:36	Pauline then got involved in the 2013 mayoral campaign.  Christine Quinn did not want the ban to be an issue in the campaign.  Pauline thinks Christine Quinn pressured the Center to lift the ban which it did. Duncan Osborne, a reporter from Gay City News, called Pauline for a comment when the ban was lifted. That is how Pauline found out. People were absolutely stunned. Their campaign was only part of why the ban was lifted, it was also the politics of the mayoral election.  

01:40:11	Pauline felt that it was important to have a forum on this topic at Queens Pride House.  It was made clear that the Queens Pride House was not taking a position on the issue and that the forum was open to everyone. Pauline believes an LGBT Community Center should engage in the Israel/Palestine issue. According to Pauline, the backlash was extraordinary. This 2013 forum was the only forum on the issue from an LGBT perspective, sponsored by an LGBT Community Center, in the country.  People are worried about losing funding if they do something this controversial. The forum was co-presented with Sarah Schulman. Jewish Voice for Peace, Jews Say No, and QAIA co-sponsored the event. No other groups have followed up.

01:43:02 	As a result of Pauline’s involvement in QAIA, Pauline was part of the first LGBTQ delegation tour to Palestine, in 2012. They met with both Israeli and Palestinian groups and traveled throughout Israel and Palestine. The trip was co-sponsored by three queer Palestinian groups. Pauline met family members of Ahed Tamimi, who now, at age 17, is in an Israeli prison. 

01:45:03	This involvement has been an education for Pauline related to both Israel/Palestine and politics here.  It is the phenomena of being progressive for everything but Palestine. In 1998, transgender activism was cutting edge.  But in 2018, although homophobia or transphobia have not been conquered, it is in the public discourse, and very few people in NYC or NYS won’t acknowledge the right to live free from discrimination and violence. Palestine is another issue – it is a third rail of American politics.  Pauline was taking a risk getting involved in this issue. Pauline see herself as a human rights activist, LGBT rights are a component of that, and Palestine is an LGBT issue. 

01:47:40	While growing up, Pauline never expected to be an LGBT activist.  When she was a senior in high school (1977), she was looking through a book of careers, and ‘activist’ was never mentioned!

01:48:44	Pauline hopes that the LGBT community will grow and flourish. She hopes it will find more resources and have full access to health care services. It is still a long way from eliminating homophobia and transphobia. LGB people can live comfortably in most parts of Queens but there are still impediments for transgender people. Even with the transgender rights law which makes it illegal to discriminate, people still do so, and it is difficult to prove. Pauline wishes that that there would be full access to health care for everyone in the borough. If a transgender person goes to the doctor, they often have to educate their own doctors on transgender issues. Police-community relations are a huge issue for the LGBT community, and specifically for transgender people, people of color, immigrants, and undocumented immigrants. It can often be a life or death issue

01:51:15	On the ‘walk’ on Roosevelt Ave, there is known activity.  If police read you as a transgender person, they will assume you are a sex worker. They go after transgender sex workers rather than non-transgender sex workers. This also happens in Queens Plaza. Pauline then told a story about a staff person from Queens Pride House who had condoms to distribute. Police checked his backpack at the Jackson Heights subway station. He looks visibly Latino. The Police asked him why he had all these condoms? When he pulled out his Queens Pride House staff ID and explained, the police did not believe him. They finally let him go.

01:53:05	The New York Police Department will often destroy condoms deliberately, including official NYC Department of Health condoms. The de Blasio administration says that they have instructed the NYPD not to do this, but there has not been much change. Police harassment and brutality are still an issue in the borough and more specifically in Jackson Heights.

01:54:34	Pauline’s hope for Queens is that it grows increasingly diverse and addresses its problems such as housing, discrimination and violence, gentrification, and political issues (the Queens Democratic machine). It is important to make the government of Queens more responsive. There is now a lot of discussion about Jose Peralta, (13th Senate District, Jackson Heights) who is a member of the IDC, working with the Republicans. There needs to be transparency in government at all levels. Representation in government is not sufficient. Any one elected to office can be corrupted and co-opted. 

01:56:44	As a borough, Queens needs to overcome a lack of visibility and priority. It is the largest geographical area and the second largest population of the five boroughs, but it is a second thought for people in Manhattan.  Queens should be seen as an integral part of the City, not just the airports.  There is so much here, it is such a vital borough with places like Jackson Heights, Astoria, Woodside and Flushing.  The diversity should be celebrated with a real recognition of the need to empower everyone in the borough, so everyone feels at home here. It should be viewed as vital, interesting and exciting as Manhattan and parts of Brooklyn.  

01:59:12	Pauline thinks she should write her autobiography. There are two or three autobiographical essays on her website. She wants to see more people involved and engaged. If not in electoral politics, people should get involved in community groups, beautification, the literary scene, artists, musicians, and the cultural life of the borough.  The LGBT community needs more people who are willing to do the work. Mahatma Gandhi said, ‘one finds oneself through service to others’. This is the story of Pauline’s life in Queens.

02:01:09	Interview completed with Pauline Park at 67-71 Yellowstone Blvd. It is March 12, 2018 at 8:30 PM.





 

