 Translation notes for research  My name is Natalia Paruz, but everybody calls me The Saw Lady because I play the musical saw.    The saw has a very angelic sound.  A lot of people say that it reminds them of the sound of an opera singer.  I like it because the sound is so ethereal and spiritual.  And also I like the visual.  Not only the fact it is a saw, which is kind of jarring because people don’t think that a saw would make such a beautiful sound, but also because when you play a saw the entire instrument moves in the air and makes a sort of wave shape.  So visually it’s very interesting as well as audio-wise.   My husband Scott composes and I play a lot of his music.   I got into saw playing by chance.  My parents and I were in Austria about 17 years ago.  We went to see a show for tourists and in it there was a guy playing a saw.  That was the first time I had encountered this instrument and I was mesmerized.  I went backstage to ask if he would give me a lesson.  And he said no. That was seventeen years ago.  So I was forced to be self-taught.  But it turned out to be a very good thing because I can say that I did it all on my own.   What happened was I came back here to Astoria and I borrowed a store from somebody who had been using it for woodwork, and I was able to discover how to make a sound with it.  But it could only make six notes because it was an old and rusty saw.  So I went to the hardware store that used to be on Broadway and 44th Street, and I bought a new saw.  And sure enough, the new saw had no rust on it so I was able to get a whole octave of notes.    Throughout the years I have collected more and more saws in my quest for the ultimate sounding saw.  Finally I got this one here behind me which was made in France.  It’s quite long, its 32 inches long, which means it has about 3.5 octaves altogether.    I moved to Astoria because my boyfriend at the time, who’s now my husband, lived in Astoria.  So I moved in with him.  My first time ever coming to Astoria was when I met him.  I remember when I first moved here I didn’t know anybody beside Scott.  At first I felt kind of lonesome because most of my friends were in Manhattan.  I didn’t know anybody here or anything here.  So I felt kind of isolated.  But then what happened was I discovered a local newspaper that was given out for free in banks.  I picked it up and all of a sudden I realized there were all these events taking place in Astoria.  So I went to an event organized by the Greater Astoria Historical Society.  All of a sudden I started meeting people and all of a sudden I had friends.     Then I fell in love with Astoria because it feels so much like a small village where everybody knows everybody.  When I went to a few different events back then, I saw the same people.  Now, I have so many friends here that I hardly ever bother going into Manhattan any more. I tried busking in a subway station in Queens once.  But I was approached by the police almost immediately and was told that I can’t do that.  So the police are not as nice to buskers here as they are in Manhattan.  Also, I know another busker who tried busking at the Steinway Street subway station, but it just so happened that at the same time there was a murder just there, that sort of put people off wanting to play there.  It was just a coincidence.  It’s not like people get killed here all the time.   Busking on the New York subway?  Oh, it’s so much fun that it’s addictive.   The people, the proximity of the people is intoxicating.  I get so much energy from all the people who come to talk to me.  If I play on a stage, I’m up there in the lights and the audience is down there in the dark and I don’t really get to see their faces and their reactions.   So it kind of feels isolated for me as a musician.  On the subway I see the transformation on people’s faces as they are watching me, listening to me.  And they come to talk to me, to ask me questions, or tell me about themselves.  There’s this exchange of energy.  It’s as if the music is the impetus for communication.  It makes you feel as if New York City, which is a huge city with millions of people, is actually a small town.   When I first came here, so many people warned me.  You know, they said “don’t look people in the eye on the street because it’s like you’re going to ask for trouble.”  And people said things like “oh in New York you can get murdered on the street and no-one’s going to come to your aid.”  But playing in the subway taught me that all these things that people from outside think about New York are so erroneous.  Because sometimes I might be playing the subway and someone who’s a little scary-looking might be approaching me.  And I will think oh no, he might be trouble, perhaps he’s going to steal from me.  And 99.9% of the time the scariest looking people end up being the nicest, kindest people with a heart of gold.  Playing in the subway really taught me not to judge people by first appearances.    I was born in Israel, though as a child we did travel a lot.  My mother was a concert pianist so she gave a lot of concerts in Europe.  And so she had to be there a lot.  My father was a research scientist so he had to do research in different universities around the world.  So that’s why we travelled a lot while I was a kid.  We lived in different countries for a year here, two years there.  That’s how I came to England one time.  At first my mother kind of frowned upon playing a saw; especially she frowned upon me teaching myself, she thought that you can’t just learn by yourself.  You have to go to a proper school.  But what changed her mind was, she had an agent.  One day the agent was coming over to our house to work with her.  And I asked her if she would mind if I played for the agent.  She reluctantly said oh ok, because she was so sure that he wasn’t going to like it.  I played for him, and he LOVED it!  Right away he said “oh, we must incorporate you into your mother’s concert.  And he was so enthusiastic about my playing and that changed her approach.  I was a part of her concert, and the audience just went wild.  I started the Saw Festival nine years ago.  When I started there were four other saw players beside myself and three people in the audience.  Those players, one of them came from California.  The others were from New York.  The festival grew over the years to include 55 saw players and more than 400 people in the audience.  So it really grew.  And huge part of the growing factor is the community.  The community here is so supportive.  All the neighbors come. And when the time comes in July you’ll see my flyers everywhere.  And all the store owners around 30All the neighbors come. And when the time comes in July you’ll see my flyers everywhere.  And all the store owners around 30All the neighbors come. And when the time comes in July you’ll see my flyers everywhere.  And all the store owners around 30 Places I like along 30th Ave…SAI Organics, the butchers store on the corner of 31st, and Mediterranean Foods, I go there all the time they have the best olives ever.  And the fruit stand.  Oh yeah, for sure, I can see myself staying in Astoria.  We’re not going anywhere.  We love it here.   There are so many encounters every day on the subway - I put them on my blog, subwaymusicblog.com.  If I was to tell one really striking encounter: I was playing at Times Square Subway Station, and there were a bunch of people around me.  On one side of me was a blind man, with a cane, and you could you know see on his face that he couldn’t see anything.  He was listening to the music and his face transformed into a big smile and you could really see that he was enjoying himself.  On the other side there was a lady, who had nothing to do with the blind man.  She noticed how he was enjoying the music.  She came to me.  She bought my CD.  She went over to the blind man and she put the CD in his hand and she said to him, “This is the music that you’re listening to right now.”  I think that was so incredible.  Also this lady didn’t know him or owe him anything, and did this act of kindness to a total stranger.   The saw is my main instrument.  My side instrument is the bells.  They’re a lot more difficult to carry!  I play a set of 65 pitched cow bells.  I lay them on an eight-foot long table and there’s a special foam that goes on top of the table.  I play mostly ragtime music on those bells.  They have a very happy sound that lends itself very nicely to ragtime music.   I also play a set of English hand-bells.  Those belong to Old Trinity Lutheran Church here in Astoria.  I play as a soloist and also with their group.   