City: Queens
Neighborhood (if any): 1. Woodside 2. Jackson Heights 3. 
Date of Interview: 10/25/16
Time Period: 1976 - 2016
Interviewee Date of Birth: 1976
Name of interviewee: Luna Ranjit
Name of interviewer: Meera Nair
Length of interview: 00:42:12
Name of editor: 
Editing software: 
Content Outline Preparer: Meera Nair

Summary: Luna Ranjit, a Nepali-American and Executive Director of Adhikaar, a Nepali nonprofit, has lived for 18 years in New York, including the last 10 years in Jackson Heights,Queens. As she ends her successful and pioneering career with Adhikaar, she looks back on her life from her childhood and schooling in Nepal, further education at Grinell College, Iowa and Princeton, to her political awakening and her social justice work. She reflects on her tenure as founder and leader of one of America's biggest Nepali non-profits and her struggles to get the organization off the ground. She also reflects on the changing face of the Nepali community, Queens and her own relationship both to America and Nepal, and looks to the future of the community and her own. 

00:00:18 Immigrant from Nepal-Came to US for undergraduate-went to Grinnell in Iowa for undergraduate-lived and worked in DC “for a bit”-got a graduate degree and came to NYC in 2004.  
00:01:13  Childhood-grew up in Kathmandu-working class neighborhood. She recalls a normal childhood, although her parents, especially father was politically active; grew up with lots of relatives, cousins and neighbors in a “tight knit community within a large city.” 
00:02:19  A scholarship brought her to Grinnell University, Iowa, which was “the opposite end of the globe” in every way; first semester was tough - “speaking English everyday”, since English was not first language; plus individualistic culture and food, everything was a “big shock to my system.” Finding food she could eat was hard since she was a vegetarian and “Food didn't taste like food.” So all she ate was “salad for lunch and dinner.” First semester was hard but being in the “middle of nowhere” created strong friendships; in touch with friends and faculty to this day.
00:05:33 Came to Washington D.C looking for work in international development. Started working for Ford Foundation Fellowship program-providing support to social justice organizations—it was “eye opening work”. For two years she supported “some really cutting edge work” that was happening in supporting international development. Became aware of racial injustice, income disparity, gender inequality also in USA--shifted her own framework. Was in DC from 2000-2002---9/11 attack and backlash against brown communities situated her differently-went from being an international student to a brown immigrant, “regardless of how I saw myself the world around me saw me as an immigrant.” This shift also affected her thinking and her identity and made her want to work with immigrants, especially South Asians and that brought her to New York city after grad school.
00:07:58 Worked at a small non-profit organizing workers---met Nepalis went she went to restaurants and got into cabs, but realized no one knew that the community was growing, “under the radar.” Many conversations with friends on how to offer help, connect the community to resources led to Adhikaar in 2005. Started with 3 friends and ended up running until “three weeks ago.” 
00:9:55 New York for her: Came here for undergrad, but thought she would go back. But things were bad at home in Nepal. Practically a Civil war. Family didn't want her to come back to a volatile setting. Father's political connections would have put her in harm's way. So decided to stay-continue working with immigrants because immigrants and opportunity to connect to community. Once she decided to stay longer , she wanted to find a place where she could “have more roots.” Didn't want to sit in fancy office and “parachute in” but wanted to be part of community.” Coming to New York felt at home in America for the first time—diversity, vibrance, pace—especially since coming to Jackson Heights which feels like home. 

13:05 Beginnings of Adhikaar: not the big organization it has become. Nepalis not recognized in government studies, interviewed but dropped from the final study. Didn't want the community to become statistically insignificant. Talking to Nepali people in Jackson Heights realized people not being paid their wages, people afraid to go to the doctor, not gone back home for a decade. Decided to do something about it. Couldn't find an organization to partner with. Started in 2005. No money. It meant going to Jackson Heights with backpack “portable office” and talking to “anyone” who would talk to her. Listening to people is how it started. Then finding leaders in the community. First donation was $500 dollars. They thought their first year budget would be $5K and they would grow by “1K” a year. Things really took off, instead. But org. arrived at a time of unmet need, when people were ready to “take action.” Now 11 and half years. Always thought she would leave when the organization was strong. Now the organization is in a very strong position, so she's leaving. Ready for the “next generation of leaders.” 

20:05 Talks about having interviewer and family leaving close by has made a difference, creating a “cocoon” of support system like back at home in Katmandu. 
23:24 Queens for her is Jackson Heights---used to be Indian, “Indian restaurants, indian clothing stores, Indian jewelry stores.” Slowly changing-fascinating to see evolution, with Bhutanese, Nepali, Bangladeshi communities coming up. First only Indian restaurants, now 4 momo trucks, wealth of Nepali restaurants to choose from. Census doesn't capture Nepalis—thinks there are 6K Nepalis in NYC. But 20 Nepali restaurants are a better indicator of Nepali population and numbers. Nepali community also beginning to move out-jackson heights is the “landing place.” The community was in Woodside, Elmhurst, Jackson Heights but is creeping East.
27:02 Community is changing. Used to be people who came for higher studies, but now older, middle-aged people also coming—leaving families behind. Experience “downward mobility” in NYC. Used to be single immigrants, but now families, starting to see chain migration, multi-generational, seniors coming. That leads to problems- for instance now Adhikaar has to provide childcare during programming. Community is now beginning to think of America as home—not a temporary place. Now Nepalis outside New York beginning to be politically involved, run for office and so on. 

31:28 Talks about personal change as a leader and growing more comfortable in her role and “occupying this visible space.” As an introvert it hasn't been easy because she lives and works in Jackson Heights. But eventually got used to being “in the public eye.” Biggest change is “acknowledging” her leadership role. Over the years, understood different types of leadership required and nuances of leading. Challenging because of patriarchal society—started out as the only vocal woman in many rooms, youngest woman in many rooms---but have gained respect from men and women in the community. 

35:06 talks about changing relationship to Nepal. Officially a US Citizen after 20 years. Doesn't believe in nation-states, but for her working with a group that is “loosely defined as coming from a particular country or region” has always been about representation for marginalized communities. Relationship to homeland is complicated. Have strong ties but homeland is also a place where as a woman, someone in an intercaste marriage, she was made to feel “subpar” all her life. Also official Nepali constitution doesn't give women, marginalized communities equal rights. Makes “no sense in 2015.” And that was a “breaking point with Nepal as a state.” That's when she sought American citizenship. Still, when earthquake hit, she threw herself into fundraising and so feelings about Nepal complicated, “depends on the day you ask.” 

39: 56: What's next is “no obligations.” Trying to make sense of last eleven and half years of her life. Trying to understand what is “Luna Ranjit without Adhikaar.” Prepared for “Adhikaar without Luna Ranjit” for so long, but now time to understand “where I stand, what excites me, and where I can add most value.” 


