Queens Memory Project
Oral History Interview Timecode Outline
	
Neighborhood (if any):			Kew Gardens
Date of Interview: 			November 8, 2017
Time Period:				2007-2017
Interviewee Date of Birth:
Name of interviewee:			 Eva Roman
Name of interviewer:			 Edgar Roman
Length of interview:			 0 hr, 29 min, 55 sec
Name of editor: 				 M Alam
Editing software: 				 Adobe Soundbooth
Timecode Outline Preparer: 		 M Alam

Summary:			Eva Roman was born and raised in Colombia. She immigrated to the United States in November 30th of 2007 with her mother. She has been living in Kew Gardens ever since she immigrated to New York. She came to New York in hopes to learn English and continue her education in Mechanical Engineering. In this interview, Eva describes her success in life as an immigrant and provides important tips for future immigrants. 

00:00:48				Eva says her full name is Eva Caroline Barros Castro. She’s from Colombia. She immigrated to the United States in November 30th of 2007 with her mother and her dog. Eva mentions that one of the reasons for her immigrating to the United States was that when she was twenty-one, her grandmother claimed Eva’s mother and Eva could come with her family. Another reason was to finish college and learn English.

00:02:05	*			Eva describes the history of her life. She was born and raised in Columbia. Eva was in her second year of college when she immigrated to New York. Adapting was an easy process for Eva because she was of young age when she immigrated to New York. One of the more shocking things to her was the weather . She found adjusting to the weather as difficult. The city Eva is originally from is known to have nice warm weather. Another difficult part for Eva’s transition was to live in a small space with her family members. She first lived in a small apartment with her grandmother and her aunt. She wasn’t used to not having her own space. Eva and her mother started to work in the hopes of finding a better place to live. She has been living in Kew Gardens ever since she immigrated to New York. In the beginning, Eva resided in an apartment with her mother, grandmother, and her aunt.  Then, Eva and her mother moved next door to her grandmother’s apartment. Afterwards, her marriage led her to move one block away from her former apartment. Eva has lived in the same neighborhood and the same block for the last ten years.

00:05:27				Eva portrays a timelines of her moves around the neighborhood. She arrived in New York on November of 2007. Then, she went back to Colombia for almost a year. Next, she came back to New York in 2009 and found a place for her mother and herself. She lived with her mother that apartment for seven years. Eva currently resides in her new residence for the past five months.

00:06:35*			Eva’s mother comes from a large family which consists of eleven siblings. She notes that she’s not close with her father’s side of the family. Eva’s mother has six siblings living in New York and the rest of her siblings are in Colombia. Eva says that her family is much larger in New York. In Colombia, Eva would only see her family during the holiday because of the distance. However, in New York Eva’s family is much closer and would see each other more frequently because they all live in Kew Gardens. Eva’s relatives have been living in New York for thirty years. 	

00:09:05				  Eva says that she wasn’t alone when she first moved to New York. She compares herself to most immigrants and states how they come alone to this country and they feel miserable. However, it was completely opposite for Eva.

00:11:31*			  Eva describes the positives of living in Kew Gardens. She notes that Kew Gardens didn’t change much for the last ten years. She likes that Kew Gardens is a diverse neighborhoods The blocks in Kew Gardens are divided into groups of different cultures and ethnicities. People from Colombia, Peru, and Ecuador lived in one block. The rest of the neighborhood consists of mostly of immigrants of European descent. In one block she’d find the Dominican Daily and in another she’d find a European newspaper. A little further inside Kew Gardens there reside immigrants from India. She explains that she’d see European cheese and Indian spices which were new to her.  Eva claims that Kew Gardens is a quiet, safe, and peaceful neighborhood. Transportation is also very accessible. Long Island Rail Road, subways, and buses are close to her. She voices her love for Kew Gardens for being the perfect neighborhood for her.

00:15:10				     Eva states that she enrolled in Hunter College as an ESL (English as a second language) student. She studied there for eight months. Then she applied to CUNY to continue her studies in Engineering, which took time because she had to transfer her credits from Colombia. In addition to college, Eva was also working in an Italian bakery. After her credits were transferred she started attending New York City Tech in Brooklyn. She continues studying Mechanical Engineering. Once she graduated from City Tech, she went to Farmingdale State College and quit her job at the bakery. She found another job at Farmingdale in which she was an administrative assistant. It was a roofing company. Once she graduated from Farmingdale State College, she quit her job and found a new job in Long Island that is related to her engineering studies. 

00:19:30					As an immigrant, Eva says that it was a long journey for her to be successful. She had to work hard to learn English at the college level. She also had to work hard to pay off her tuition. 

00:22:20					Eva expresses that commuting from Kew Gardens to Farmingdale was challenging for her. She didn’t have a car and taking the LIRR was expensive. 

00:23:40					She describes that her hard work and efforts led her to have a successful and happy life.

00:24:25					Eva suggests that everyone has an opportunity in America but it only comes from hard work.

00:27:00					Eva explains to the new immigrants to keep working hard and never give up. In the end, it will all equate to success. “My advice is not to give up, just keep going.”

00:27:55					Eva describes the changes in infrastructure of the New York City. Currently, she works in construction. This allows her to see the city’s progress. 















 PAGE   \* MERGEFORMAT 1



Queens Library, Library Services Dept., Attn: Natalie Milbrodt, 89-11 Merrick Blvd. Jamaica, NY 11432
For More Information, Contact: Director, Natalie Milbrodt (Natalie.Milbrodt@queenslibrary.org)



