Queens Memory Program
Oral History Interview Timecode Outline

City:				East Elmhurst, Queens
Date of Interview:		March 7, 2017- Part 1
				March 17, 2017- Part 2
Time period:			1986- 2017 
Name of Interviewee:		Sergio Rondon 
Name of Interviewer:		 Walter Saavedra
Length of Interview:		2 hr., 10 mins, 20 sec
Name of Editor: 		 Catherin Gallegos
Editing Software:		 Adobe Soundbooth
Timecode Outline Preparer:	Jeffrey Delgado
Language:			Spanish

Summary:	Sergio Rondon is an immigrant from Lima, Peru who crossed the Mexican border into San Diego, California. He came to New York because his older brother was already here. In this interview Sergio discusses his travel into the United States, his fear of being an illegal immigrant, and his transition of living in East Elmhurst, Queens. Sergio also discusses his political and religious views and the current situation Latinos face under the Trump administration
00:00:44- Sergio explains his origins and how he arrived to the United States. He goes onto explain why he chose to come to the United States
00:01:40- Sergio talk about his older brother Luis, who wanted Sergio to come to the United States and how he was waiting for Sergio in New York
00:02:30- Sergio explains his brother’s passage and how he was cheated out of passage to the United States. Luis then had to stay in Mexico to earn enough money for another passage into the United States. 
00:03:20- Sergio was starting to get into trouble back in Peru, so his mother and brother wanted to bring him to the United States so he wouldn’t be around bad influences anymore and lead a bad life.
00:03:43: During the summer of 1986 Sergio obtained a traveler’s visa to leave Colombia and “watch the world cup” which was being hosted by Mexico.
00:04:19- Sergio discusses his old neighborhood in Lima and how it was a very poor part of the town. He explains that although he was young he liked to hang around the people that were older. He had a passion to learn quickly. 
00:09:30 -He was very young and happy to be heading toward the United States. He fantasized about the United States through the American movies that he watched back home. Sergio arrived in the United States when he was seventeen years old. In his head he thought would get to the United States and he would live a better life. “Disillusioned” 
00:11:00- Discussing the passage to the United States from Colombia. He came in through San Diego, California from Tijuana, Mexico. He never asked any questions. Everything was already fixed. If the coyote said something, you had to do it there was no question about the passage. He was traumatized for three months after the passage. 
00:12:20- Arrived in New York City right when Argentina had claimed the World Cup title. He recalls seeing Roosevelt Avenue being loaded with Argentines and other Latinos. He had forgotten about the World Cup and seeing the celebration brought him back to reality. 
00:13:30- Sergio’s brother Luis, lived on Junction and Roosevelt in Jackson Heights. The two brothers roomed together because they only had enough money to rent one room.
00:14:10- His brother had everything lined up for him when Sergio arrived to the United States. His brother insisted on a few important things for Sergio. He insisted that Sergio get an education and learn English. Sergio attended high school for a year and a half where he learned the basics of English.
00:16:00- Sergio felt that the instructors and other students in his English as a Secondary Language class looked down on him and the other immigrants. He didn’t know if they actually looked down on him and recent immigrants purposefully but he felt uncomfortable in that class. 
00:17:45- Sergio left school after a year and a half. He decided that people had to create their own destinies and he felt that finishing school was not part of his destiny. He expresses that he wishes to reconnect with the friends he made while in school. 
00:21:00- Sergio is fearful that his children will not be able to identify themselves as Peruvian and that his children will become alienated from their heritage. He constantly reminds his children about the life’s hardships. One hardship he reminds them of was his early struggles in Peru and his hard journey to New York.
00:25:40- First job was that of a messenger by foot and or bicycle. It was time to use his knowledge of English to work. 
00:27:00- Sergio talks about his experiences with the various jobs he had as a young man in Queens. He learned how to manage money and how to learn how to live as a proper adult. He states that his brother was always there to look after him. Sergio says his brother not only told him how to do things but also taught him how to get things done. 
00:28:30- Sergio speaks about the tribulations that his brother experienced, such as not getting paid for work that he did because he was undocumented. Often time people Luis worked for would threaten him about his status. Sergio says that his brother and his experiences taught him how to get jobs that would pay him and not abuse their power as employer.
00:31:51:- Begins the second part of the interview on March 17, 2017. Sergio explains his relationship with his coworkers and how they were all from different nationalities. He benefited from these friendships because they would correct his English whenever he said things incorrectly.
00:36:15- Sergio talks about his divorce and how it was a big moment in his life. He felt like he was losing his children but in reflection he says it was one of the best things that happened in his life. He states that it was one of the three best things that happened to him. First were his children, second his divorce, and third was his practice of Buddhism. 
00:41:20- Sergio speaks about his first encounter with a Buddhist woman. He then speaks about his conversion and how he became a Buddhist. He feels that his connection with Buddhism occurred at a moment in his life when he needed spirituality. 
00:43:25- Sergio continues to speak about his experiences as a newly converted Buddhist. He says that the Buddhist woman that he met (Kathy) said “If you want to be happy this is the religion for you and it will make you happy.” His first meeting with Buddhists was an informal gathering where they came and discussed their problems and troubles. He realized these people weren’t discussing their problems simply for pity. This method of communicating was a revelation to him because they were opening their hearts and stating ‘this is what I am going to change.’
00:46:10: Sergio is asked what he believes is a good friendship. Sergio explains how a true friendship is based on what actions that friends make in sincerity. Friends should act without asking for something in return. A real friendship is someone who truly cares and would not hesitate to tell you the truth when you’re doing something wrong or harmful.
00:48:00- 00:58:00- Sergio gives an example of young people displaying bad behavior at a Chinese restaurant. He cites this example as how people should reflect on their actions wherever they go. 
01:05:30- Sergio talks about his fear and hardships he faced while being an illegal immigrant in New York City. He states that having his brother here made the transition to a new country far easier than most that come here illegally. Sergio says that “If you know you are coming here, you know it will be difficult. It is not Peru, and things are different here.”
01:14:00- Sergio talks about the influence of Catholicism in his life how it relates to his life in Queens. He speaks with Walter about the meaning behind certain Catholicism beliefs. Sergio breaks his language down and says that “religion should exist for the good of man not the other way around”. This leads to an overall discussion of religion and its influence on people. 
01:23:30- Sergio and Walter discuss the pending hardship that Latinos face when they are faced with unemployment, alcoholism, or drug abuse; specifically within the illegal immigrant community. Sergio discusses how we used to drink when he was younger. He feels he needs to communicate to the youth in Queens the dangers of excessive drinking.
01:33:00- Sergio and Walter discuss the present day perspective on illegal immigrants (specifically because of Trump’s presidential election.) Why do people view illegal immigrants so poorly and as criminals or thieves? Sergio speaks about it being part of the generational characteristics of illegals and part ignorance from those who are “threatened” by illegals. He feels that proper parenting will negate these types of views.  
01:40:25- Sergio discusses the relevance of politicians and the relationship of people who work all day without being able to stay home and take care of their children. Sergio states that politicians only think about themselves and their ability to be re-elected. There are only a few that are sincere. 
01:42:00- Walter and Sergio discuss the new immigrants that do not want to learn English or rather they do not make the effort to learn English. Sergio feels that if you want to better your life, you need to study and go to school. He says that the youth today are only concerned with making money quickly. 
01:45:20- Walter asked about how he would feel about a Latin President. He says that the president that does that would be only interested in himself like most politicians. He feels that the only president that was closest to the Latinos was Bill Clinton. 
01:46:00- Sergio talks about Donald Trump as President and compares him to a dictator. Sergio explains how he is only acting in his best interests. He goes on to explain that if we keep hoping that one person will change the situation from bad to good then we will always be waiting for change to happen. We cannot put our fate in the hands of one person.
01:50:00- Sergio states how humanity needs to change within itself to create a clearer and brighter future for the world. He compares this to a person and its shadow because if you change your position your shadow changes. 
01:54:30- Walter asked if someone who is new to the group and religion of Buddhism, how would there transition look like? Sergio cannot answer for anyone but how he felt when he became part of the group. He states that he felt a certain vibration and decided to practice Buddhism in order to be happier and to change the negative parts of his life. 
01:57:30- Sergio says that suffering allows us to open our eyes and become stronger. Identifying that suffering and making the change to right that wrong will ultimately lead to happiness. He states that he wishes to go back to Peru with his philosophy. 
2:01:00: Sergio explains that happiness is relative. He says that people living in the third world that do not have anything still have a smile on their face. Happiness is not a material thing; it is a spiritual and mental thing. If it weren’t for suffering than there would not be true happiness. 













 PAGE   \* MERGEFORMAT 4




