Queens Memory Project
Oral History Interview Timecode Outline
City: Elmhurst, Queens
Neighborhood (if any): 
Date of Interview: 10/24/15
Time Period:  1970-2015
Interviewee Date of Birth: 
Name of interviewee: Rhodello Roque
Name of interviewer: Claro de Los Reyes, Kristina Kalaw Joyas
Length of interview: 01:40:40
Name of editor: 
Editing software: Adobe Soundbooth
Timecode Outline Preparer: Baksha Ali 
Summary: Rhodello Roque was born in Buotas, Philippines. His father moved to The United States when he was probably four years old. The rest of the family moved to the United States in 76, after being represented by his father. Mr. Roque did not know one bit of English when he came to America. Therefore, everything felt strange to him.  His first memory of Queens was that he wanted to see his father since he did not see him for a couple of years. However, the interaction with his father was strange for him as well; due to the communication gap. At a young age, he was really curious about Filipino people and their culture because of feeling homesick. While he was aware that there were Filipinos in his neighborhood and school; he did not know how to approach them and assimilate into the culture. It was during his high school years, that he began to connect with Filipino people and embrace their culture. Furthermore, he talks about the various crews he was part of and shares stories of what lead him to become a DJ. 

*00:01:00	he was born in Buotas, Philippines. 

00:01:16	His father moved from the Philippines to New York, when he was probably four years old and represented the remaining family. 

00:01:27	He, his sister and mother moved to New York in 76 

*00:01:58	the first memory of New York for him, was wanting to see his father because he has not seen him for four years.

*00:02:37	 he did not know one bit of English when moving to America.

00:03:45	there were a lot of Filipinos in his neighborhood in Woodside, but he did not get the chance to get to know them. 

00:03:55	He attended P.S 12 (42-00 72nd Street, Queens, NY 11377) in the 80’s. At that time, the kids he would mostly hang out with a lot were Latinos and black children from 76 to 82. 

00:04:40	the family moved from Woodside, Queens to Corona Queens around 1984 or 1985. 

00:04:48	the neighborhood in Corona was mostly Spanish. 

00:05:15	Attended John Bowne High School (63-25 MAIN STREET, QUEENS, NY 11367), a catholic school from 86 to 90. 

00:05:55	Found out there were Filipinos in his high school in his senior year around 89 or 90. 

00:06:19	WOULD ONLY HANG out with FILIPINO KIDS THAT WERE HIS COUSINS OR FAMILY friends.

00:07:02	first lived in Woodside from 76 TO 83 then moved to Corona and has been there since 1983.

*00:07:14	He would go caroling from house to house with the quire he was part of and they would sing Filipino and Christmas songs. 

00:09:28	His sister and he, would eat Filipino food and do their homework at the restaurant that was owned by Erna’s mom, when it was her turn to babysit them. 

*00:10:09	He was really curious about wanting to know where the other Filipino people were, but he did not go outside of Woodside because of his mother. 

00:11:23	Attended St. Sabastian Church (58-02 Roosevelt Avenue Woodside, NY 11377).    

*00:12:00	Started to make more friends when his father was involved with the Filipino bowling league around 83. 

00:12:12	His father was involved with a lot of community stuff, but they never talked much about it. 

*00:12:28	Remembers going to the Filipino bowling club and the Filipino Independence Day parade in the early 80’s. 

00:12:40	the parade would be held in the Rockefeller Center. 

00:12:44	He would eat Filipino foods and bother the girls during the parade. 

00:14:15	the festival would have a lot of Filipino people, but he does not know exactly how many people were in attendance. 

*00:16:50	Wanted to be around Filipino people because he missed his home in the Philippines. 

*00:17:49	the black and Latino kids, that he used to hang out with thought he was Mexican and he would go along with it. 

00:18:19	started hanging out with Filipinos in his senior year of high school

*00:18:50	became involved with the Filipino community and their culture from the 90’s to 2002. 

00:19:01	Attended Queens Borough College (222-05 56 Avenue, Bayside,) in the 90’s. 

00:19:06	They were the first to create FIN in Queens Borough College, the Filipino club that brought together a lot of Filipinos. It was developed through word of mouth from different colleges and became known as district 3. 

00:19:39	Was doing radio back then at Queens Borough community college, so he would make announcements regarding Fine. Therefore, every Filipino would meet at in one of the hall and there would be music on Wednesday from 12 to 2. 

00:20:21	a lot of his classmates were Filipinos in college and they were all from queens. 

*00:21:05	there was a Pizza Hut in Hillside; where all the Filipinos from Van Buren High School, Queens Borough Community College, Jamaica High School, and Hillcrest High School would hang out in the 90’s. 

00:24:24	Started doing Radio for himself, because he wanted to be a radio DJ. He hung out with the Spanish people when he was younger so he picked up a lot of the music and djing skills.

*00:25:35	Wanted to be a Met (Music Electronic Tech) when he graduated from High School because he loved computers and music. He would do  binary and was a hacker as well, during his high school years.  

00:26:36	His main hobby, as a child was playing video games. He wanted the Atari video game, but his father said “ no” because they had no money for it. So, he would go to his friends, Jays house to play video games. Jay was also Pilipino and a  programmer; he learned how to create video games by reading a book called “ Compute”. He became  interested in computers by watching Jay create video games and ended up learning binary and becoming a hacker in the  80’s.

00:31:33	his father was an accountant and his mother was a bookkeeper. Therefore, his choice of career is completely left field, because his parents wanted him to be a bookkeeper or something related to accounting. However, he was interested in music, because he liked the Raggae mixed tape his father gave him when he was eight or nine years old. His father got the tape from a friend of his. He listened to the mixed tape and liked what he was listening to.  

*00:34:17	the computer part was during his high school days. He wanted a job that combined music and computer together.  So, after doing a lot of research, he decided to give music producer a try and registered in Queens Borough for the program. It was a two year course and he almost finished it, but he was running out of money. 

*00:36:14	A Was inspired to become a DJ due to Cubert and Rob Swiftfrom the Exicutioner. A guy gaveRolado a VSH tape and asked to watch it in 1991 or 1992. The video was Dmc Battle, which was a world competition ; it had a kid named Cubert in it and he is from the west coast. He was in Germany, playing at the “ Ministry of Sounds”, a really big and famous club in Germany. Rhodello was impressed with what Cubert did in 6 minutes and he was also amazed by the fact Cubert was Pilipino as well. 

*00:37:55 	he was interested in free style music. The first free style record he ever picked up was called “Scars of Love” by TKA and “ Silent Morning”. He also followed a Filipino artist named “ GIA”. However, he did not have a turn table so he worked at McDonald from 86 to 89 in main street, Jamaica just so he could buy one. 

*00:39:40	bought his first turn table after working a year in McDonalds. Back then, everything was about layaway so he would keep twenty five dollar for himself from his pay check and the rest would go to the lay away. Therefore, it took him a year to get two turn tables and a mixer. 

00:40:29	High school in the 80’s, was like prison and people had to belong to a certain group. For example, the in group or the nerd group. Therefore, even though he was a mischievous kid, he would hang out in the library a lot because he would be bullied. It was there, that he noticed the Greek and Italian kids and other groups of people in the library; including a DJ group, so he would share his mix tape with them. They would ask him, if he was a DJ and he would say “ no” because he was still learning it.  

*00:41:54	He got into DJ, just by listening to mixed tapes

*00:42:12	Was also inspired by a kid called “ Large Professor”, who is part of Main Source. He made Rhodello listen to “Live at the BBQ” or maybe “Faking the Funk”. However, Rhodello had no idea who Large Professor was at that time or that he would blow up to be a big name because he was more interested in free style music rather than hip hop at that time. 

*00:43:30	Started mobil djaing and was part of a Spanish crew called “ The Rhythm Project” ( TRP ) around 88 or 89, it was like a house freestyle thing. The group would make money by playing at Spanish parties. he would do that, work at McDonalds and go to school. In high school he was part of a program called, co-op where he would work one week and go to school another week.  

00:44:57	told his father that he wanted to be a music electronic tech and  fooled his father, by saying that it involves computers. 

00:45:17 	Worked as a banker when he was in college because of being part of the co-op program. First he worked in the bank full time and then he worked there part time; while the music was a side thing. However, he started the career change in the late 90’s and was mostly hanging out with Pilipino people from the early 90 to 95. The group did parties in places like: FIt, St. Johns, and Hunter college. It was also during that time, he was getting into the Pilipino culture; like how they would act or dress. Community was a big thing and huge in the 90.

00:47:30	the scene in the 90’s was all about gangsters. He moved from Spanish and Black friends on to hanging out with the Asians – Filipinos and Chinese kids. Therefore, it was a cultural shock to him. He was part of a crew called 1-6-9 and they would hang out in 169 street. They would  always look out for each other and make sure that the Lost Boys wouldn’t attack them. The crews would really feel like family, like if you didn’t have a house or somewhere to live they would help you out. The 1-6-9 crew in Jamaica is not what it used to be. 

00:49:15	some of the other hubs; where Filipino people would meet are: all the restaurants in Roosevelt – Epiny, Philippine Village. Also, there used to be a club across the street from Perlin; that’s where a lot of Filipinos would hang. Filipino crews really started emerging in the 90s and a lot of them would DJ.

00:50:38	Was part of a DJ group called “ IBP” ( Intro Base Production ); It was a pure fobbed out Pilipino crew. However, there were also other cool crews. For example, Hit Squad; they were a huge group. Lowell was a big figure and a major DJ.  He was doing a lot of things, that Rhodello was doing. Another crew was called “ Quar Tribe”; they were also a huge Pilipino crew as well; and they happened to be in Rosedale. The whole DJ community would be together.  A lot of the Filipino parties would be held in Ukrainian Hall in Aster place between 10 or 11; where the Stomp theater (126 Second Avenue New York ) is located. The Quar tribe was the first crew to rent the place out and he saw it. The next day, his crew rented out Ukraine hall and had their own Pilipino people be there. They would all meet at a pool house called “ Mammoth Billiard’s” around Fashion Institute ( FIT ). A bunch of Pilipino would go down there and  there would be fights there as well because of the rivalries between Jersey and Queens and New York people. Each of the crew had a DJ section; where everybody would hang out. Q tribe and IBP were connected and they created the biggest crew ever, but they had no name for it. It was either IBp and Quar Tribe or Rolly ro and Cleo Derek. Clo Dereck and he, would rent out Village Gate and would throw a party; where hundreds of Pilipino people would come to party.  The major thing in the 90, was about community and Filipino parting.

00:56:02	it was when he started battling that he started noticing that there was something bigger. He started a battle crew called, “ The Fifth Platoon”. He created this crew with Daddy Dog and  Neal Armstrong, who DJ’s for JC and is the ambassador for Adidas sneakers. This group also had his ex-girlfriend Cotton Candy, Candice Studio, Emerge, Dough Boy, and Vin Rock; who was from Jersey. They were the first battle group in New York City and that was what got there name out there because they were doing something different. They wanted to have something different and wanted Filipinos to be part of the Hip-Hop culture. His girlfriend at that time, Cotton Candy, started to get into the DJing thing and started to learn how to beat juggle and  scratch. She put herself out in California in 96 or 97. She performed during the ITF, which was a big event, without telling anybody and started scratching and cutting. They also got involved with Asian Avenue in the late 90’s. They spread the words about Pilipino culture and promoted their networks.  

*01:02:08	the major highlights of his career consisted of: buying his first record in 86, buying his first set in 89, DJing from 90 to 95, and dmxing from 93 to 94. 

01:04:40	Battling against DJ Baboo was a memorable battle for him. The battle between them was for beat juggling and DJ Baboo took him out by a simple trick mixing. The battle was at the “ Palace Of Fine Arts”, in San Francisco. 

01:11:44	He stays in Queens because he wants to spread the culture more and he loves being a person from Queens, New York. he was born in the Philippines, but he was raised in Woodside, brought up more in Corona, and currently lives in Elmhurst. 

01:14:45	believes the life and culture are different in Queens now, from then what it used to be. For example, he thinks that Queens is fast paced in today’s time and it is not as social as it used to be. 

01:18:04	The first Filipino crew he has ever heard was called “Boom Base” in around 89 or 90’s. It was a really good crew and his cousins were part of it. FOR THEM, it WAS ALL ABOUT HAVING A LARGE system. The next crew was called “Hit Squad” and they were also all about having a large system. His crew was called “IBP”. They on the other hand, were all about partying and did not care about having a large system, do different types of parties (after school parties). 

01:22:52	IBP, were the first ones to go as DJ’s in the Filipino Independence Day Parade. They rented a truck and a generator as a float. After the parade, they rented a table for $500 and would duplicate and sell mixtapes. They would sell the tapes for 10 dollars and made over a grand. A year later, they were stopped and soon they were unable to get a sound permit. The group wanted to stop violence and wanted everyone to know that hip-hop was a universal thing. The  rented out a spot one last time during the Pilipino Independence Parade and were part of Asian Avenue at that time. They flew Kai down in the early 2000 for the event. Kai was hanging out with them and signing autographs; People wanted Kai to perform, but they told them no because they were not allowed to have a system. However, the committee of the parade found that Kai was at the event, so they asked Kai directly to perform. Kai declined their offer because they would not let Asian Avenue do a system. Candice felt good by what they said, but she also felt bad because she was thinking about the community. After some discussion, Kai ended up performing and they promoted Asian Avenue.

01:29:51	worked at Fat Buda, in order to find himself again; where he met Christina, who wanted him to teach her how to be a DJ. He decided to teach her; after searching her on social media and talking to her again, in Fat Buda. Unfortunately, a couple days later, he was told by the doctors that he can not work because his leg was going to be placed in a metal cast. Christina found out about his situation and crated a “ Go Fund Me” account. Therefore, he hopes to give back to the community and wants to help DJ’s that has worked for 15 to 20 years at least; because they gave their entire life through the night life.

Words that need to have the spelling checked out  
Buotas
Erna
FIN ( District 3 )
Djing
Atari
Jay 
Cubert and Rob Swiftfrom the Exicutioner
GIA
Quar Tribe
Mammoth Billiard’s
Rolly ro and Cleo Derek
The Fifth Platoon
Candice Studio, Emerge, Dough Boy, and Vin Rock
DJ Baboo
Kai ( person or a group )
Fat Buda
Epiny

 
