Queens Memory Program
Oral History Interview Timecode Outline

City: 				Hollis, Queens
Neighborhood:	 	Hollis
Date of Interview: 		April 12, 2018 
Time Period: 			1976 - 2018 
Interviewee Date of Birth: 	--
Name of interviewee: 		Elsie Saint-Louis
Name of interviewer: 		Stefani Priskos
Length of interview: 		1 hr, 4 min, 8 sec 
Name of editor: 		Adrianna Kumar
Editing software: 		Adobe Soundbooth
Timecode Outline Preparer: 	Stefani Priskos
Summary: 	Elsie Saint-Louis, the current Executive Director of HAUP (Haitian Americans United for Progress) discusses the history, present, and future of the organization and the population(s) they serve. The services HAUP provides fall into four main categories: family support, youth and children’s services, services to the special needs community, and immigration services.

00:00:00 – 00:00:16
Metadata
00:00:16 – 00:02:02
Briefly, Elsie discusses her personal background and what led her to become involved with, and eventually Executive Director of, HAUP. 
Elsie started working with the agency in 1993 as a volunteer and held various roles as a board member and consultant before becoming the organization’s Executive Director in 2004. 

Elsie was born and raised in Haiti and immigrated to the U.S. when she was 14. Her academic background is in political science and she holds a Master’s degree in business. Elsie is a devout Catholic and in addition to her work at HAUP, she is the music director for her parish. 
00:02:02 – 00:05:58
Elsie’s path to HAUP
Previously, Elsie worked in development with the Archdiocese of New York. Her first exposure to HAUP was when someone suggested that she write a grant for the organization. 

The Archdiocese had a connection with HAUP because the Haitian Apostolate, run by Bishop Guy Sansaricq (a founding member of HAUP), was housed in the lower level of HAUP.

Later, another founding member asked her to be on, and then chair, the organization’s Youth Board. Elsie subsequently served on the organizations’s Board and also served HAUP as a consultant. She began working at HAUP full-time in 2000 and was asked to take on the role of Executive Director in 2004.
00:05:58 – 00:09:37
On HAUP’s growth
Over time, HAUP has grown from having a budget of $62,000 to being a $5 million agency. 

HAUP provides “cradle-to-grave” services. The services HAUP provides fall into four main categories: family support, youth and children’s services, services to the special needs community, and immigration services.

Over time, the needs of the community and the services that HAUP provides have evolved. 

HAUP serves anyone in need in the community but has always maintained reputation as being a “safe zone” for Haitians.
00:09:37 – 00:19:43
HAUP’s evolution, cont’d
HAUP was founded in 1976, in the basement of Sacred Heart parish in Cambria Heights, Queens. During 1976, there was an influx of immigrants from Haiti who were fleeing political unrest. 

Initially, HAUP was primarily focused on immigration, translation, and ESL services. 

As needs of the community have changed, so have the services that HAUP provides. At the same time, there has been a high level of continuity. 

Currently, with the recent changes to immigration policy, HAUP is returning strongly to its immigration advocacy work in a way that hadn’t felt so urgent since 1976. HAUP is advocating against the repeal of DACA and TPS (temporary protected status) for Haitians.

HAUP is the THE organization that serves Haitians in Queens, so there can be a lot of pressure to provide more services than they are able.
00:19:43 – 00:22:29
 HAUP’s evolution cont’d
Although it feels as though progression on immigration reform has suffered recent setbacks, the services that HAUP provides have expanded over time. This is especially true regarding HAUP’s youth programming. New youth programs include:  
	•	STEM after school programs 
	•	Summer leadership program for middle school students 
	•	College fairs
	•	Universal pre-school 
00:22:29** – 00:28:10
On the culture and heritage of HAUP as an organization
HAUP was founded (and has prevailed) because Haitians from different political and economic backgrounds banded together to support a common cause. When HAUP was founded, people from all walks of life pooled their money together to purchase the HAUP building.

 “Our mandate is to be the eyes and ears and the support and the heart of the community through our services and our programs” 

HAUP staff has modeled programs after what they would have wanted for themselves, their own children, etc.  

HAUP is family-oriented and has a strong culture of mentorship on the staff. Many of the staff have spent their entire career at HAUP, and there are many young people choosing to start their careers at HAUP, as well. 

HAUP is an organization that embraces and understands culture and Haitian culture
00:28:10** – 00:35:36
On how the Haitian immigrant narrative differs from other U.S. immigrant narratives
The Haitian immigrant narrative is multifaceted: it is economic, racial, national, and linguistic. 
Haitians are very diverse in terms of how they function as a community 
Many Haitians grew up under dictatorship and moved to the U.S. to escape it. Many (but not all) immigrants were well-off financially in Haiti, as opposed to many immigrants from other places. 
 
Haiti is very class-defined: there is an intellectual elite, a small  economic elite, and a large lower class, but little to no middle class. 

Many Haitians and Haitian-Americans have strong familial and economic ties to Haiti. 

Haitian identity in America is inextricable intertwined with, but must be differentiated from, African American identity. “This country has found a way to keep everybody’s heritage separate, minus the blacks. Once you talk about the blacks, they group them all as African American”. 
00:35:36 – 00:39:46
On learning from HAUP youth
Not all youth involved in HAUP programs are Haitian; youth are very diverse. HAUP programs put value on recognizing and engaging with students’ individual cultures and heritage. 

Currently, HAUP is doing a lot to engage with young adults who passed through HAUP youth programs as children. HAUP leadership has been learning to speak their language. 

Elsie has found that millennials and people from older generations engage differently when it comes to making an impact; for millennials, having something on paper isn’t enough, they need to see action. 
00:39:46 – 00:44:09
What it means to be a “safe space” for Haitian immigrants
Safe space isn’t something that’s created; it’s earned. 
First and foremost, HAUP provides physical and legal safety for vulnerable people. 

Every individual is given same quality of service and care regardless of their background. At HAUP, it is important to make every client feel valued and respected, especially since as an immigrant they may be feeling helpless and frustrated.

HAUP also provides places where Haitians can find others who speak their language and understand their background and experience.
00:44:09 – 00:51:18
On funding—successes and challenges
Nothing is easy to fund. 
Because of size of the organization, HAUP is no longer able to qualify for the smaller grants they need, but also not big enough to get other funding they need. 
HAUP receives discretionary funding from electoral officials for family support services.

HAUP competes for RFP’s (request for proposal) for youth services, education, and universal pre-K.

Funding has always been a challenge for HAUP; they have never had enough money to provide all the services they want to. 

The community HAUP serves isn’t a community that is necessarily capable of financially supporting the organization. 

Over time, HAUP has become more strategic about pursuing funding by delineating the services the organization provides into four main categories: family support, youth and children’s services, services to the special needs community, and immigration services. 

Two initiatives that are extremely difficult to fund are programs for undocumented people and advocacy.

In 2016, all funding for HAUP’s ESL program was cut. HAUP continued to offer the same quality of ELS programs with volunteer labor until HAUP regained the funding. 
00:51:18 – 00:58:23
HAUP under the Trump administration
Advocacy for immigration reform started to regain urgency during the Bush administration. The community hoped for a serious strengthening of the system under the next administration, and although Obama did not harm the immigration system, his administration did not adequately protect it from future changes. 

During the period following the 2016 election (November 2016 – February 2017), the Haitian community was very afraid, and felt attacked and unsafe. The repeal of TPS (temporary protected status) has been the biggest challenge for the Haitian community. TPS is usually allocated 18 months at a time, with some shorter extensions, but it is always unpredictable whether it will be extended after each deadline.

There is a constant struggle between fighting for DACA or TPS—which one do you prioritize with limited advocacy resources? 
00:58:23 – 01:01:33
On her hopes for HAUP’s future
HAUP will celebrate its 45th anniversary next year (2019).

HAUP’s 5 year plan is to smoothly transition with government restructuring while maintaining quality, compliance, and financial viability. 

HAUP hopes to be even stronger at 90 years than they are at 45. 

They would also like to work on making their advocacy work more efficient and effective. 
01:01:33 – 01:03:56
Closing 
HAUP is not just the Haitian organization in Queens. Elsie wants others to understand that HAUP’s contribution is beyond what it does for the Haitian community and culture. HAUP is open to teaching and receiving and learning; it is not a separate group from what makes up Queens. HAUP wants to be part of the Queens dialogue, considered as an integral part of the fabric of Queens. HAUP isn’t just a Haitian organization, it is a Queens organization, and New York organization. 
01:03:56 – 01:04:08
Metadata



