 Transcript notes for research  Dashawn Wilson (DW): My name is Dashawn Wilson and I live in Queens, Ravenswood, Long Island City.  Matthew Lisbon (ML): My name is Matthew Lisbon and I live in Brooklyn.  Artie Sanchez (AS): My name is Artie Sanchez, I live in Astoria Houses.  John Acevedo (JA): My name is John Acevedo and I live in Brooklyn.  Dashawn Johnson: My name is Dashawn Johnson, I’m from Astoria Houses.  Efia Lewis (EL): My name is Efia Lewis; I’m from Baldwin, Long Island.  DW: This is REELization Films.  That’s our group, that’s what it’s called.  We work on films, baseball, and everyday life time; sometimes we just make things up.  JA: Right now we’re trying to do a re-make of the 12 angry men film.  DW: “Twelve Angry People”, since there are females in this group.   AS: The neighborhood is good.  Everybody gets to know each other.  But the bad thing about it is that there are always problems here and there.  We tend to see it as normal.  Say, I think it was last week, or two weeks ago.  There were shootings from Friday all the way to the next week.  And everyone here was walking around like it was normal.  But anyone who wasn’t from here was like, you know, a little jittery.  You know.  It was people who live here.  And it was funny because the whole thing was, I think it was two groups of people who all grew up with each other, who all know each other, who were friends.  But they just split up into two groups.  They were still friends, but I don’t know, stuff happens.   Then today I was walking along here with my cousin [JA], and there was this girl pulling another girl’s hair, just holding her down.  And everyone was walking like it was normal.  And we were watching it while we were walking, because it seemed like they were just playing around.  A lot of people around here play like that, so…So she was just holding her down and we walked away.  But I don’t know what happened after that.   JA: What I saw is when I was walking, she looked at us and she was smacking the other one on the head.  And everyone was walking by like it was normal.    AS: It is normal.   Everyone’s grown up like that.  People round here slap-box and things like that.  Some people don’t know how to take it and then they start fighting.  But it’s like a normal thing for people who live around here.    After a couple of days [from when the shootings began] there were still no cops.  Then after that the whole place was filled - like cops everywhere.  But they waited till the second or third day; with the second and third shootings…it felt a little safer with them here because they were everywhere.  But now they are gone again.  They have the machines out there for the generators in the middle courts but that doesn’t change anything.    DW: I’m in high school just trying to go to college so I can study film.   ML: Still in high school.  AS: Second year at La Guardia Community College.  I’m studying human services and mental health and I’m going to go into psychology.  Ever since I was young I like the way people behave.  I was very observant.  So I base my ideas on the way that people act.  It interests me to see the way that people form the way they do.    JA: I’m in school at the moment in a JD program; I’m going for a certification in computer and computer repair.    DL: Still in high school.  About seven months still to go.   DJ: Still in high school, where I’m on the baseball team.  I’m going to go to college and take computer technology course, for computer programming.    EL: I go to Queens College.  This is my fourth year.  I’m studying urban studies, biology and with a business minor.  I’m more into public health.  I remember someone said how outsiders were freaked out by what happened with the shooting and things.  But since I live in Long Island, I’m in an area that’s completely quiet.  I grew up in Brooklyn so it wasn’t that much a surprise to me, but I guess living in Long Island I guess it changed my perspective on it – now I can see it’s possible not to live in an environment where you see that as the norm.  It is actually possible to live in an area where you barely see police.  Ethnicity in Long Island is very different; there are a lot of very stereotypical points when it comes to that.  When we first got to Long Island we were the first African American family on my block.  And I guess that kind of like changed everything.  Once they saw that more African Americans were coming into the environment like the whole perspective on the neighborhood changed - from “this is a great town in Long Island”, to “oh, the schools are getting bad”…So it’s just like, the whole racial point of view changes the whole perspective on a town or an area that you live in.  I always opposed that.  I knew exactly why they were saying it was getting worse than before, it’s how society works.    JA: I come over to visit my cousin [AS in Astoria Houses] a lot.  But since I’m not from here - I’m from Brooklyn and when I come to Queens there’s a lot of different things.  This community is a lot more quiet, it’s quiet compared to certain parts where I live.  I don’t see a lot of violence here.  Where I live, I see violence every other day, and I would expect that more over here, because it’s a big community.  And there’s a lot of projects and a lot of kids looking for trouble.  And I wouldn’t expect it so much where I live but I see it all the time and I don’t know why.  I guess people just don’t have self-control, there’s people just hanging around outside, trying to start a fight.  You don’t see that here.  Everybody’s cool with each other, everybody knows each other, and that’s it.    AS: I moved here when I was six or seven, from Brooklyn.  Right off the back after the first year, all the other kids that grew up, there’s now a new generation that’s grown up.   DW: I think its good [the gentrification etc.].  I actually grew up in this neighborhood and then we moved to Ravenswood.  When I was first living here, we didn’t see any of that.  Like there wasn’t any garden [Two Coves Community Garden].  There was no art [Welling Court Mural Project].  It was totally different.  From when I was living here to when I came back when I started this program I saw how everything has changed, like the stores, everywhere.   JA: I wouldn’t like to stay in New York because I’ve lived here for so long.  I would like to see how it feels to be in a different neighborhood, a different state.  That’s what people normally say when they own a house and all they see is like open space and roads etc., they would like to see the city.  I would like to switch it up, and go out of state, and see all the open road and land and stuff like that.   DW: I would like to stay in New York.  Actually my grandparents live in Raleigh, North Carolina, and I visit them often.  And it’s so boring out there!  It’s very quiet, and there are no street lights, and when you’re driving at night you can’t see anything.  And there’s nothing to do.  I ask my grandfather “what can you do here?”  And he just says “watch the grass grow”!  In the future I would like to live in Manhattan.  Probably in a penthouse!    EL: I love New York.  It’s so diversified and stuff.  I don’t think any other state can top this.  I guess I now miss the city because I’m in Long Island and it’s so quiet.  But in the city there’s always something happening, the subway, like…  JA: The city’s always alive.  But sometimes when I’m in the center of Manhattan I go crazy, because you don’t know what to expect.  It’s like everybody’s in a rush, everybody’s doing so many different things, you see so many lights, it’s like do I want to do this, do I want to do that, you see something happening over there, you pay attention to that then something’s happening over here and at night a lot of different things are happening, you get confused sometimes, that’s the way I feel sometimes when you’re in the middle of Manhattan and it’s at night and you can’t stay focused on something.   DW: One thing I love is when you’re in the subway, and everything is like kind of dirty and broke down, but as soon as you walk upstairs and see the city, especially at night, you see all the nights and everything it’s like a big change, it like opens up your eyes.  