Queens Memory Project
Oral History Interview Timecode Outline

City:				Long Island City, Queens, New York
Neighborhood:		Hunters Point Section
Date of Interview:		November 3, 2018
Time Period: 			1932-2018
Interviewee Date of Birth:	July 21, 1932
Name of Interviewee:		Elinore Schnurr
Name of Interviewer:		Jazmine Perdomo
Length of Interview:		48 minutes, 1 second
Name of Editor:	
Editing Software:
Timecode Outline Preparer:

Shareable Link for Google Doc: Recording of Interview
https://drive.google.com/open?id=1AOScgBK8kE3sg8Zj67kwQfdfDsj0jN2w

Jazmine: Good Afternoon, This is Jazmine Perdomo. I am going to be interviewing Elinore Schnurr here at the Diego Salazar Art Studios in Hunters Point Section of Long Island City, Queens. All right, how are you today?

Elinore: I'm just fine.

Jazmine: Good, all right let us begin. All right, so tell me about your first memory that you have?

Elinore: Well the first memory I have that I can really remember was when I was probably around 3 years old and how I use to love to draw with my father on the kitchen floor. It was during the depression and everything was scarce but there was a relative who worked at a factory that made paper tablets for a company and he use to bring them over to our house, so we had lots of paper and pencils to draw. So that was always great fun. My father loved to do that.

Jazmine: Okay, so what was it like growing up in Ohio?

Elinore: It was very pleasant. There were always friends around and relatives. I had a brother at the time when I was small; my sister was born when I was 10. So she was young. We walked to school back and forth everyday for 12 years with my friends. There were lots of activities, you know basketball, football games, I was a cheerleader and rather extroverted and we rode our bicycles and we played in the street and I had lots of cousins, relatives. My father had a sister around and my mother had a family around and they all lived within the six blocks of us. So it was lovely, but I never wanted to stay there forever. So that was just a part of my life.  

Jazmine: And what part of Ohio was this?

Elinore: This was Sandusky, Ohio, which is half way between Cleveland and Toledo on Lake Erie. 

Jazmine: So what was your relationship like with your parents?

Elinore: Generally comfortable. My father took a great interest in us kids. He liked to play games. He liked to play baseball in the street with us. He was always taking us and lots of my friends swimming in the summer time when we wanted to go and he encouraged my artwork always. He himself was something of a jazz musician. Before he married my mother he played in Cleveland in a Jazz band but she made him quit because she didn't like him out on Saturday night. My mother came from a Croatian background, and she had a mother who never smiled and she was a very beautiful but not a happy person. She did not think that anything having to do with the arts was terribly important, sort of a waste of a life when I could've actually done whatever I wanted to do. But she herself was a craftsman, she can embroider, she can sew beautifully, she designed her clothes and she made clothes and crochet hats and sweaters and dresses for every kid in the neighborhood to keep herself busy. But she was frustrated that this was the time when women didn't work and weren't educated and she was smart, she could've done a lot of things and she knew it and she was frustrated by that.

Jazmine: So, what was your relationship like with your siblings?

Elinore: Well, I was about 10 or 11 years old and I came home one day and I saw my mother cutting flannel squares on the kitchen tables and those were the diapers for my new sister who was about to be born and I was so happy and she was always like my child when she was growing up and we were friends forever in life and she is no longer with me unfortunately. I had a brother who was two years younger than myself and a little more remote. We use to be kind of a same physical strength cause I was 2 years older and he was a boy and we use tonight a lot and my mother use to push us out the door to fight. But we loved each other, yeah very good. 

Jazmine: Can you just remind our listeners what years you lived in Ohio?

Elinore: I was born in 1932 and I eventually went to the Cleveland Institute of Art. I left Ohio in 1955.

Jazmine: So what made you leave Ohio? 

Elinore:  I had fallen in love with a man who had been at the art school when I was there but had moved to New York to finish his education at Pratt. So, when I finished art school I moved to New York and we very quickly got married and we moved to Providence for a couple of years and then we traveled in Europe for six months. We had saved up some money because I was doing fabric design at the time and just went all around looking at paintings for six months and didn't do anything else. Saw all the great work in Europe and there were not very many travelers and it was very cheap so it was a great, great thing to do. And when we came back he's continued to work in Providence at the Gorham Silver Company for a couple of years and we decided to go to New York where he had other possibilities. So that's what we did and that was in around 1960.

Jazmine: Ok, now what was one of the biggest difficulties when you moved to New York, officially? 

Elinore: It was mostly, well I was, we were both young so there were we didn't see many difficulties at all and we found a small apartment on the west side in 72nd  Street and stayed there for a while until I got pregnant with my first child. And then we found an apartment up near Columbia University that was quite large it was seven rooms and it was very cheap because it was under rent control. So we were there for them, All the while my children grew up. I had a daughter later and the children grew up there. 

Jazmine: And you have a total of two children?

Elinore: I have two children, yes.

Jazmine: Do you have a good relationship with them today?

Elinore: Yes, fabulous! My son is was a wild kid but he managed to create a contracting business for himself in Long Island City actually. My daughter lives in Manhattan not far from where she grew up. So they stuck around and they both have children. So it's been very nice for me that they're here.

Jazmine: So what do you do for a living and what made you decide to take on that. 

Elinore: Well as I said my mother said I was a little bit that I threw my life away but I decided to make my living making paintings, which I pretty much have done. I just never got into teaching or any of this. The other things that helped to support an artist although I did do proofreading for a large law firm for many years when I was in Long Island City. But those kinds of jobs like proofreading don't pay anymore like they used to. Used to be able to actually make a living at that. And I always did it just part time. So basically, I make my living selling paintings I make and sell paintings period. That's about it. 

Jazmine: What kind of paintings do you do?

Elinore: I've always been a figurative painter, although in summers I have done landscape pure landscape plain air. Which is going out into the field and painting on the spot. But my basic way of painting, My basic painting is figurative painting, Trying to figure out you know people how they feel in a philosophical basis to the painting somewhat related to Edward Hopper who was my original inspiration. And I spent some time, I still do portraits when they come up from people because I can get a likeness and I do enjoy doing portraits and getting a sense of a sense of the presence of another person pretty well and I just finished the portrait. I don't do as many portraits as I used to. I used there was a time when I got myself out of debt by spending a year doing portraits. So that's my story there. 

Jazmine: So when you first moved here to Long Island City, what was it like? What were the neighborhoods like? Where were the people like?

Elinore: Well it wasn't like it is today. I can tell you that right now. When I came to Long Island City I brought a friend with me to take a look because I was scared to cross the river into Long Island City. I mean having been traumatized by this by the situation in New York you know originally. But I had seen an ad in the paper for an apartment live workspace in Long Island City and I had been divorced and was living in other people's lofts for a while. So I decided to pursue this and see. And I ran into Diego Salazar who was just moving his business, he had a business in framing and making frames. So he now wanted to rent his space out to an artist basically. And it looked like a great space. My son was just starting to do contracting building work so he helped me put in the kitchen building to the place. And I lived there for 20 years. There were a lot of our businesses in the neighborhood in live/workspaces at that time. And so I gradually helped to form a group called the Hunter's Point Artists Coalition. Which we had shows from time to time mostly a big spring show with open studios and somebody gave us a big space sometimes to have a show along with it and I love long island city. You couldn't get down to the waterfront at all and there was no park. People were dumping asbestos down there and down by the waterfront. It was a little bit little bit scary to go out at night walk around in the neighborhood. It was mostly industrial. At the time and the sewage plant wasn't built yet. Those pretty smelly here sometimes when the wind blows the wrong way. So it wasn't terribly desirable and therefore the rent was cheap. So here we have another situation where we have cheap rent and not such a great neighborhood and as the neighborhood is gentrified, it's high rent and you can't live here. So but de Blasio has built some affordable apartments in Long Island City and be responsible for some more. So I have one of those so I'm I lucked out just because I've been here for so long.

Jazmine: So you mentioned that there was a situation in New York. I believe you said 1980s and how it was dangerous. Can you explain a little bit more about that?

Elinore: Well yeah I mean I was knocked down a few times when I entered my apartment building which was near Morningside Park which was near close to Harlem which wasn’t a great neighborhood at the time although it's changed a lot by now. And my one of the kids I was taking to the park got hit with a beer bottle and threw it over the wall from Morningside Park you know those kinds of things. My kids were, well you have to be careful. The bike was stolen once there. You know just different, different things and I was knocked down a few times myself coming in and out of my building and that was the west side. Then there were the marches that from 1968, when my son was 6 years old and my daughter was 4 we were in the middle of the fight against the Vietnam War. This was a hotbed of revolution up there on the Upper West Side. And there was a civil rights movement. And one of the people who was very involved in the civil rights got killed and who lived in my building at the time. There was a big fight over where Bank Street School is now and people died in that fight. That happened a little before, but they were trying to build an old age home where my building was my $110 a month apartment was in this group of buildings. They wanted to knock down 8 buildings and build an old age home right across from St. John the Divine. And we said no way! But there were fortunately a group of tenants who lived in the building just refused, refused to leave. So in some of the buildings there were only three or four apartments that were occupied. And a new bishop, Bishop Moore that's who it was, came in to the church and he was afraid that he was the rose window was going to get smashed or something in the chaos that was happening not only with ourselves which was minor, but we were making use of some of the chaos to keep our buildings and so that we were able to save two of the buildings. I remember what happened. There was a group one night. One night. There was a group of people who moved into the empty building next door to us. They had emptied out six of the buildings and they moved in with plumbers and carpenters and the whole works and occupied the entire building. And then the church gave up and they built their building somewhere else. 

Jazmine: Wow, so you mentioned that you were part of like a feminism movement. How was that like and around what year if you can remember?

Elinore: Well, that what's going on about the same time. I really never participated in it as a group but emotionally I had always grown up to be to consider myself equal to men. And so the feminist movement was just an affirmation of this idea and we became quite strong while I was, while I was developing my work. Because I would and I was aware that there were very few women who were in the big national shows there were very few women who were represented in galleries. And after I had had a painting that was in the Museum of Modern Art there were a few galleries that were interested in seeing my work although it wasn't developed to the point where I was ready to show but so I had a couple of appointments and one in particular when I said that I during the interview that I had a child I was out the door. So, which infuriated me of course. But gradually things have changed and women are an equal part of almost an equal of the art scene.

Jazmine: Ok. So are you involved in any volunteer work in and around the city?

Elinore: Only involved in volunteer work having to do with the organization that I have been helping to develop. I'm on the board of the LICA organization. LICA stands for Long Island City Artist and is an organization that has existed for 35 years but has taken on a larger role after Plaxo. The Plaxo Company has given us 12,000 square feet of space to work with. So we've become very active in soliciting and bringing in various groups from all over Queens. Art groups and the group that shows everything about it has expanded so as a result, I've been active that is strictly a volunteer project but I don't participate with others. I just don't have time.

Jazmine: So what do you want to see in Queen's future? Do you want something to change? Do you want them to make more of something?

Elinore: Well I would like to see in Long Island City I would like to see the Plaxo gallery actually follow through when they build they plan to build the complex over there by Annabel Basin. That they actually follow through and give make a community center, which is what they say they will do. And so that it will remain a focal point for the Arts in Queens. It's not just visual art but it's also cultural. It's also performance art as well and has that. So and more involvement as a result with people in terms of the Arts which has been happening on a very slow basis. But by reaching out and if the economy continues to be okay or thrive there will be more. There will be more participation because I've noticed the quality of work that has been coming in from all over Queens has been you know very very very good very good and Queens has never been known as for its for its art. Flushing Council has been one of the few places that's even shown much art and they've kind of backed off since they belong to the Smithsonian now. They don't show much visual art of the artists around in Queens. They tend to do more local things and concentrate on music whereas at an earlier time they had a great, a much larger focus on the visual art. But now it seems like Plaxo has taken over that, that particular thing.

Jazmine: How is the community here? Do you guys have annual festivals? 

Elinore: Yeah yeah. We have a lot. We do have two annual festivals. There's a theater here called the Secret Theater, which is run by a man who has come in from came in from London maybe about 10 years ago his name is Richard Mazda, who is a dynamite person and he has a small theater right around the corner. He decided to participate in the Open Studios festival to recreate it make it bigger about five years ago or so, maybe a little longer. And as a result now we have two festivals one in the spring one in the fall. And there are exhibitions in every possible place some places that are old warehouses over behind LaGuardia. That used to be owned by Macy's and Gimbals’ that have this extra space. They've had this extra space for several years that they give to the artist to use. It used to be in the faulty building but now it's over in the factory building, huge spaces. So Richard has taken it upon himself to bring in art in those spaces. He keeps art in the factory, most of the time. But in the fall there's a festival. It's just about to happen now. And in the spring there's an even bigger festival and art is hung just about any nook and cranny you can find around and it's a good festival. But it's used to be, there were more live workspaces and there are more workspaces and there are more people from other places that come in and use spaces here. They participate. So it's it keeps changing, keeps changing and there's film and there's the, forget the name of the film, there's a field museum do you know that one? Kaufman, Kaufman studios. They have a museum and they have a lot of film festivals, Queen's film festival, Queen's short film festival. So it is actually, actually quite a bit of activity in the area and but it's very most of the people live in Long Island City are here because moved here because they have families because they wanted to have a family. It's really hard to get them off to our festivals and things you know. But, but people do come from wherever.

Jazmine: Now before the interview we were talking about how they're building new properties and everything like that. How do you feel about those, the development?

Elinore: Well they’re over; they're overdoing it totally. There's a certain amount of pushback from the neighborhood. But the real estate people have all the money and the planning and there's a 79 story building going up about a block from here which is the tallest building in Queens and much too much, too much too tall. And over by the waterfront, there's a part that joins up by the Newtown Creek. It's like a point and they're going to put up three or four more buildings up there. And one of them is a 55-story building and they're talking about covering over part of Sunnyside Yards and putting buildings up on top of it as if there's not enough space to put buildings. But what they haven't done is put in the infrastructure is beginning to be deficient. The waste water, the sewage the water that kind of thing. The transportation is overcrowded now and I don't know what's happening when the L line closes now for repairs. There's a lot of people that are going to be moving into Long Island City because they won't have the, you know the transportation on the L line. So, It's taken a long time to start, to start Long Island City, it took almost 20 years to get it going and now they can't stop it. So but it's interesting they keep the Vernon Avenue part, the Vernon Boulevard I should say Vernon Boulevard continues to have its small shops, mostly restaurants. That's mostly what's there and a whole area that's kind of low level and zoned from this area that I'm in is zoned for small buildings narrow buildings they can't build high buildings here. But right across, a block away they can build. So it is a battle, constant battle between the community board and city itself. Sometimes, we’ll see. The community board will when, when the real estate people run out of money. That is what will happen.

Jazmine: Ok. What do you think is the best thing that could happen to this neighborhood?

Elinore: Probably to take all these things into consideration. The quality of life into consideration and in the planning you hear things like well the fine art commission of New York, I don’t know what its called, Finkelstein I think the name is, says well we are going to build 35 live/work spaces to keep the artist in Long Island City. Wonderful. But, I don’t know will they do it, will that happen? It seems like there’s constant, what do I want to see. That is not your question. What do I want to see? Well a lot of things that are happening are things I want to see. They’re around a lot more cultural things here, a lot more yoga in here. The park has a, has tangle dancing, has yoga in the summer. It has races. There’s all kinds of wonderful community activities. There are children art classes. Children art schools. There is just a plethora of things that are going on as the number of people in the area rise. But it seems there is a tipping point somehow with the infrastructure that has not been fully taken into account but I don’t know where that is either and nobody really does. And some of the old buildings, Diego keeps this building in really in really tiptop shape but the building next to us, is owned by DF cornerstone and that is only 3 stories and they are just waiting for the zoning to change. But will the zoning change? As soon as the zoning changes, everything goes crazy because there are these people waiting for the zoning. There is a certain amount of planning, but too much planning doesn’t work either. I just I have no idea. I don’t know how people work these things out. It seems to me it just happens. Most of it just seems to happen. 

Jazmine: When it comes to your artwork, has it ever been in a gallery?

Elinore: I have been in the past. Now there is interesting, the galleries the situation for artist has changed a lot since I started. Because when I started, we had slides. We presented slides to people. And there were not that many artist and you can walk into a gallery and how the gallery owned the slides. I can make an appointment with the curator at the museums because they wanted to see my work. You cannot make a person, you know, that’s not the way it works anymore. The Internet happened. The Internet, there use to be a few artists who would go about with things to show. But now there are millions because anybody who picks up a paintbrush can show their work on the Internet. So it really makes sense for a very different, different market there. Then, there are the art fairs, which take a lot of energy with the galleries they show at the art fairs. It cost a lot of money to show at the art fairs. They no longer take on the responsibility promoting individual artist in the same way that they use too. And then so much of the money going into the art auction into the buying and selling paintings, which have no cultural cohesion at all. Its just money and artist don’t benefit from that all. Its just art has become a commodity. They don’t look at the art and say, “oh that’s beautiful, how did you do it?” No, they’ll just say, “oh yeah wonder how much that will be worth in 10 years.” Fortunately, there still are a lot of people who love art. The amount of art that is out there and the amount of art that people buy is probably more than ever. It has become a very large and chaotic enterprise. 

Jazmine: When you said slides, what is that for someone who doesn’t know what that is?

Elinore: Well you take a picture with a 35 mm slide, and then you created a slide for each of your painting and you sent it to a gallery and showed it to a gallery. That was operative until the Internet came along. 

Jazmine: Have your paintings been in galleries, any recent ones or…?

Elinore: Recently I haven’t been showing in galleries. The gallery I was showing in one called Capricorn, down in Bethesda, Maryland and they were very big on figurative art for 40 years and they did very well. I had another gallery in Atlanta, Georgia that did okay. One in Cleveland for a while. Then at one point, I moved into back from Green Point here and someone who had been coming to look at the work and when the arts opened were responsible for commissioning a couple of paintings for lobbies in buildings. I have in the building on the water front here, 45-40. It’s a painting of the interior of Grand Central. The print is up there on the wall, but there is a big painting in the lobby. Then I did one for Four City Ratner in Brooklyn in one of the few buildings they have left now at 85 near Bam. I have a big painting in the lobby and those took a lot of energy and I kind of let the other stuff slide. Then those galleries they aged out and then they were older people who had them and then they went out of business. There was one in California also. At that point, it just seemed so difficult, and couldn’t make contact with the galleries easily anymore. They weren’t opened to seeing new work by an older artist. They weren’t interested. They wanted somebody who was straight out of a MFA program that they could manipulate into big money right away. Anyway that is my take on it. Did you ever hear such a cynical approach? Anyway recently, I have a large mailing list that I have accumulated over the years. And recently I have been making more of an effort to sell with my mailing list and I started listing prices on the Newsletter, which I sent out with a picture and that seems to be working in an interesting way. You know, there is always something new and I have the work. I have lots of work.  So it’s a matter of organizing properly. It’s a month-to-month thing. I don’t know very many people who make a living making art. 

Jazmine: Do you ever collaborate with other artists?

Elinore: Not with the actual work. No. Probably in showing it, but not collaborate. I take a great pleasure in being here all by myself and just painting quietly and I can do that for days, days at a time. 

Jazmine: Do you have an advice for people who want to pursue this?

Elinore: Just do it! There are lots and lots of ways to do it. You don’t have to just paint pictures and sell them, you can, as so many [people that I know do, you can work in the commercial market, you can work in the interior decorating market with work, you can form groups. You can show in small groups. There are more and more organizations that one can send ones work for temporary exhibitions, which I do do also as well as sending things personally and that combination seems to work. So that is a way to get the work out as well. It doesn’t really sale out there but people do see it. 

Jazmine: Where do you go for your inspiration for your paintings?

Elinore: Well I had a favorite place, which has disappeared. In the book there, that Matt was looking at, has my what I call my “Reflections” series outside looking in series. I was standing on a corner by the Blue Fin restaurant in times square and that was unusual because that restaurant had a ceiling to sidewalk glass window that faced times square at 46th street.  So that when you looking into the window, you saw the people inside and you saw the reflection on the glass of what was behind you of Times Square. I had done endless paintings using those variations on that subject. I like the idea of painting something that is real and not real at the same time. The mystery of that intrigues me. It’s sort of a collage like effect, which I liked. And then I have another series. One painting I just finished has reflections upon reflections, upon reflections and mirrors and you know their glass acts like a mirror and you know it becomes quite abstracted. Because it’s a visual process when you look at something, you don’t see the whole thing like you would see a renaissance painting. You don’t see the whole thing, you see in pieces. I look at you, I see your eyes then I see your mouth then I see your hand. I don’t see all of you. But sometimes when you make a painting you see the whole figure all at once. But I play around with these visual kinds of things. Then I was doing a series and I am still continuing it. I introduce a narrative into what I just described because by looking at these situations in Times Square you have a lot of electronic boards that have images on them and sometimes these boards are mixed up with the people in there. So, instead of using advertising, I used the narrative of an outside world. I’d always had the idea that I wanted to get this duality of the human mind and look at something and you can have something in your mind at the same time, so it could present a visual image. And so I introduced images of terrorism, guns and different things like that into the paintings that I have been doing from the reflections, which I call more of a narrative. A narrative situation. And that is probably the place where I am at. I want to do some more of that although, I find that I don’t have to use terrorism, and nasty things. I can do other things as well. But there is always something out there. But Blue Fin no longer exists on that street and there is no other place like it in Times Square so I am looking around for new situations that inspire me out there. 

Jazmine: Well I think that is all I have for you today, did you want to add anything else?

Elinore: No, I can go on and on, but I won’t. You probably have enough.

Jazmine: So, once again this is Jazmine Perdomo interviewing Elinore Schnurr here at the Diego Salazar Art Studios here in the Hunter’s Point Section of Long Island City, Queens on November 3, 2018. 











 


