Queens Memory Project
https://drive.google.com/drive/my-drive?ogsrc=32 
City: Queens

Date of Interview: October 28, 2018

Name of interviewer: Jada Clark

Name of interviewee: Maria Spector	

Length of interview: 1:03:16


J - Today is October 28, 2018, I am here with Maria Spector, and...where are we? What cafe are we at?

M - We’re in Community Cafe 

J - We’re in Community cafe in Queens, New York. Ok?

J- So just like tell me about yourself. Where did you come from. Did you grow up here?

M- I grew up in Queens, but nowhere near here, I grew up in Jamaica, Queens.

J- So how was, what was that like as a child, did you have a lot of friends?

M- We had a, I grew up in a great place. I grew up in a place called Parkway Village which was built mostly for uh because it was built for the UN actually because a lot of people couldn’t find housing when they worked for the UN when the UN was built. And so it was built and it was a very unique and unusual community within a community so it was sort of an enclosed kind of space within Queens that had mostly a very international. So before I think the Queens of today which is so international this was sort of the beginning of it. And it was nice, it was a nice place to grow up. I had, we had incredible freedom and incredible friends and it was just an amazingly diverse place for...yeah.

J- I was going to say so did you have friends of all different types of races?

M- Everything and mostly they were from all around the world because a lot of them worked for the UN. So they were just from, you’re actually interviewing another artist that grew up there as well. Well not maybe you aren’t interviewing her, but she’s on the list.

J- Oh okay

M- It was, I don’t know, people don’t talk about it much, but it had a lot, there was alot, it was a very interesting place it was a lot of political activists and very liberal, socialists, democrat kind of environment, it was just a very unusual place to grow up and I’m still actually friends with a lot of the people from there.

J- That’s good. That’s good so when did you end up moving out of Jamaica queens?

M- I moved out of Jamaica, Queens in 8th grade, but my mother stayed there so the connection wasn’t ever broken, but I did move out at high school.

J- So when you moved out did you live with your dad?

M- I moved and I lived with my father on Long Island for high school and my mother remained in Parkway Village.

J- Ok okay, now do you mind me asking did they separate?

M- Yeah they were divorced.

J- Oh they were divorced. Now do you have any siblings?

M- I do I have a brother, an older brother

J- So how, were you guys separated or…

M- No, no well he also moved out to long island for high school. He lives now in Whitestone, Queens. So he’s still in Queens, my brother.

J- So how did you feel when your parents did divorce? Like as a child I know some kids take

M- Oh no I was quite happy

J- OH you were happy?

M- Yeah it was a good thing

J- Oh wow that’s a first, only because I mean my parents they divorced in 2010 , but they were separated since I was one, but I know that my friends when their parents divorced, they took it a little bit harder.

M- Oh no, no I was quite happy. They’ve been separated a number of times and it was quite, it was nice and peaceful, it was, I could sort of concentrate and become a better student and move forward. It was much better. I was quite happy.

J- Great, great so how was your High school experience? So I know that you are into art and so when did you...did you start getting into art when you were in high school?

M- I did take a, maybe two art classes in high school, but I was a truly undecided kind of kid. I had no goals whatsoever, my only goal was to leave home and go away to school. I had absolutely no other pressing goals, desires, needs, thoughts, wishes, so I was pretty one-dimensional that way. I just really wanted to go away to college. And didn’t have any, I never thought about not going to college, that was it. I was just going away to college. So art was not something I thought about. I think I do remember in junior high that you know, they put you in uh in the city I was P.S. 117 and they did put you when you moved to your junior high, put you in a sort of major or concentration and they put me in a concentration of visual art concentration, but I didn’t want to be in there and I actually switched out to performing arts. So...and I couldn’t see anything which was part of it because I didn’t get glasses until the middle of eighth grade so its hard to be a visual artist if you can’t see.

J- So who introduced you to art?

M- In college, so I was registered for i think it was a dance history class and it was cancelled, and I had to find something and drawing fit in my schedule, so I took it and that was the first time. So at first in college I was actually a psychology major. And I was a psychology major first and that was only because i didn’t find anything I liked, anyway so and you had to find something eventually. So I’ve tried everything I’ve tried every course you can take. I took philosophy, sociology, psychology, environmental science, oh I really have to go back and think about it, but I tried I think I took every intro course the school tried to take every course the school offered. And since I was sort of up against the wall, I picked psychology which is actually a science where I went so it was a little different then the psychology you get elsewhere. Then I think I was taking up one drawing class and I liked it and then I took another one and eventually, eventually it turned out that I could get an art major if a stayed an extra semester so I stayed an extra semester and so pick up art and Psychology.

J- So what’s your specialty? Like what are you most comfortable with?

M- In art?

J- Yeah, yeah comfortable in art?

M-Truly, I’m a figurative painter. You know, I paint people, that’s my strength. That is where I am most comfortable, that’s how I’m mostly trained. And it wasn’t my training wasn’t in college. I don’t think college is really the place you learn to be a visual artist if you’re going to learn how to be a visual artist in a representative kind of way. If you want to be a conceptual kind of artist or a new media artist, I think you can learn that in colleges it stands today but I think you have to go elsewhere if you want to learn some of the more traditional forms of art.

J- So I saw that you put on the paper that your mom was Jewish.

M- Yes.

J- Did you keep that same religion, like did you adopt the religion once you became an adult?

M- Well I am Jewish, both of my parents were Jewish, but they’re also rather liberal, atheist kinds of background which I think is pretty common for New York City. It’s not an uncommon, uncommon thing. So I’m Jewish, but I married a man that is Unitarian, if you know what Unitarians are.

J- No what’s that?

M- They’re sort of the hippies of Christianity. They’re like uh, they’re very…

J- Peaceful?

M- I wouldn’t say peaceful. They’re sort of...they would be defined under a Christian religion, but they really believe in just about everything and nothing so. But my kids are Jewish because I’m Jewish, but like I said I wasn’t brought up, so I would be brought up culturally Jewish obviously because all my family was and I go to plenty of weddings and bar mitzvahs, but, and I tried to bring my kids to Temple, but I really had a hard time with it myself so I stopped.

J- Why did you think that you had a hard time?

M- Because I wasn’t brought up with it so it was very alien to me. You know, it’s very, it’s hard to, it’s you’re culturally something, but it’s also a very, very, very difficult- it can’t just walk into Judaism. They make it-, it’s a very-, you have to know a lot. It’s not, I think it’s very different to walk in. My brother married into a Catholic family, it’s very different to walk in to say, a Catholic church and you can figure out things pretty quickly, but in Judaism, you know, they’re talking in other languages, all kinds of other things. So it makes it very difficult, sometimes. But yeah, No, but certainly I’m sure I go back and I’m sure you can- if we did my genealogy, I’m sure it would go back, you know, many centuries...you know.

J- That’s really interesting. So I have a quick question. You said that you lost your studio. Do you think it’s from the gentrification that’s happening?

M- Oh it’s from the gentrification. I mean I was blessed, I has a studio in Long Island City for 17 years, I had extraordinarily cheap rent for 17 years I had great space. The first space I had, had an amazing view of the city before all the buildings were built so I looked straight out and you would see the like especially like in a thunderstorm, you can see the clouds come out over the city, and it was such an unusual place back then because I would say I came to Long Island City about ‘99 I think, ‘99 or 2000 and I think the only reason I thought to come here was probably because I had a history of Queens so it didn’t scare me away. I think new artists that come to the city wouldn’t think to come to Queens so, but, yeah no I was just gentrified out like many artists. You know most artists here now if you have a studio here you have to have a means to support it. I don’t know, it’s hard to now you know my rent was pretty cheap but now people are paying a minimum of $1000 a month. I mean don’t know how people do that with an apartment and everything else. You know, it’s just people don’t have the cheap studios like they used to. When I came in it was cheap, relatively, but still cheap.

J- So do you still practice art at home then being that you don’t have a studio?

M- So yeah, I’m lucky I have a house so I have space to work. And the only difference is in the studio here I was willing to use some of the more nastier things I suppose, you know I would be willing to oil paint and such which I won’t oil paint at home because I don’t want to bring in the turpentine into the house. And I don’t want to, it’s too messy so I use gouache and other water media at home.

J-  Wow. And it makes me like sad because I see New York, and I see how- and I’m only 23, but you know, I see how it was back then and now people who really enjoy art, can’t because it’s expensive. So with that being said, where do you think art is going? In, Queens, like where do you think it’s going to go?

M- Going in Queens? You know I’ve been wondering how Jamaica (Queens) will do. Jamaica to me is an interesting neighborhood. It’s got a lot of established communities, but to me that is sort of an area where you might, might be able to get cheaper, cheaper accommodations but, I’m not so sure. I think the gentrification now is moving so quickly, that I think New York City is probably, probably done.

J- Wow.

M- So most of the artists I know unless they were established in a studio space that they own or for some other reason including some of those loft laws that were around, most of them are going and I don’t see people just going nearby I mean they are going and they are going far away and I know people that are going off to Europe I know at least two artists that have already gone to Canada. They’re going. And I think there are a lot of new artists that come to the city and I don’t think that’s going to stop, but I don’t, but I don’t know how they can sustain it. And what happens is they get a little older, they get married or have a kid and then they can’t sustain it. So I think it depends I think art in New York City right now you’re going to have really young people come out of art school, they’re still going to want to come to the city, but I don’t think they can sustain it past a certain point. So I don’t know there is a lot of artists moving along the Hudson Valley, even that’s gotten expensive now. 

So it’s hard for me to say, I think New York is always going to be a center to some degree because there is so much going on, but I don’t know. I don’t see a lot of the interesting things that I saw happen early on when I first was an artist around here. You don’t see a lot of the alternative spaces happening because I don’t think you have the young people to make those things happen in a way, so I don't know, I don't know. But there's still, I just went to an open studio this morning before I came here down the block from here, I didn't ask them how much their rent was, but it's got to be pretty high. 

So, you see I see work getting smaller. People don't have large spaces to work in, so the work is more contained. A lot of the work is not painting anymore, anyway you don't really need a big space unless you're doing certain kinds of work. You can do your work from a little computer at home, you really don't need, the idea of the romantic, I guess the romantic vision of an art studio is not really necessary for a lot of work that's done today anyway except for a place to maybe meet, you know meet dealers, curators, whoever, otherwise I'm not so sure you need it anymore. 

J - That's so sad, that's very sad. No, because like I don't know like I just wish, I just wish people weren't so money hungry, and  you know, artists, truly talented artists who really want it, wouldn't really be able be to do it because they can't afford it, I guess. 

M - But they haven't been able to afford it for a long time. I mean really art is for the rich at the moment, I mean even to make art. Ask a lot of artists who are, you know how they support themselves, it sounds really awful, but when I was a young artist just starting out I had a very, she was a wonderful artist and a friend and she was in already, I guess she seems so old to me but really she probably wasn’t that old. But and she said Maria marry a doctor. And I said oh shoo, no, come on. You know, I felt especially because I met my husband back when he was, we met in our first year of college, so I was like no, I don't need to marry a doctor. I can support myself, I can make it with art. You know, the fact that she wasn't wrong, so.

J - Wow. So, as far as your art is concerned, where did you start like did you start like did you start at like doing art pieces for free? Did you like graduate so like charging people? Like the art that you have right there, did you like charge people? I don't know how art works.

M - How art works?

J - Like as far as you're like selling it, like or showcasing it.

M - Well, there's lots of different ways. That's a kind of a broad question. People will come to my studio and buy my work. If they see my work they might contact me, but most artists are not very good at that and I'm among them, so I don't sell enough. Yeah, so it's not, so most artists like me will end up making money other ways. So, I don't sell enough of my artwork to make a living from directly just from the artwork. There are artists that do, but the art market is also a very extreme market so you have say an artist like Jeff Koons who's so rich that you can't compare, and then you have the rest. So you have really sort of the top, the high end market and then you have really kind of the rest, but they're mostly artists that struggle and then most of them, 90 percent of them will be working some other way or be lucky enough to be  you know supported by someone, there's only a handful of artists that really do support themselves from their art.

J - So what do you do now?

M - When I'm not making my art?

J - Yeah, when you're not making your art.

M - And not taking care of my children?

J - Oh. Yeah!

M - I teach art, I teach also.

J - Oh, okay.

M - So, I teach art at senior centers, I teach art at various places. So most of us and I sell my art when I can, when I can.

J - So would you ever be like an art teacher at a school?

M - No, I'm not qualified, I don't think.

J - No really? I saw that you had a masters.

M - Yeah, two masters. It doesn't mean, it's not a master’s in education though, I have an MFA, which makes me say qualified to teach at a college, but I think the majority of art, if you go back 40 years, the majority of arts is like, say got a MFA would have been able to get a job teaching at a college, but that's not really a viable alternative anymore because most colleges don't hire full timers anymore. So you're getting more than half the professors that they're hiring are what they call adjuncts, they are part timers. So, if you only got a few thousand dollars per course, it doesn't necessarily pay to do it and you're not getting health insurance or benefits anyway.

J - Yeah.

M - So, if you see a lot of well-known artists, you'll see that they actually were college professors. But it's not really, it's not a viable alternative for the amount of artists out there and the fact that they don't hire full timers anymore.

J - Yeah. I have a lot of adjunct professors now.

M - Yeah, yeah.

J - So, I definitely understand

M - Be nice to them.

J - No yeah, no, definitely. So you have, how many children do you have?

M - I have two. 

J - You have two. Are they older or?

M - I have a 17 years old daughter who is going to go to college next year and a 12 year old son.

J - So, with the recent, well, no, let me change gears. If you mind me, do you mind me asking like if you're a Republican or a Democrat?

M - I'm a Democrat, a registered Democrat.

J - Registered Democrat.

M - Yeah.

J - How do you feel about today's political state?

M - Oh, I'm not watching the news anymore, and about three months ago I think I just did and then turned off the radio. I usually I painted always listening to WNYC or NPR and it was interesting, it was always how I was able to concentrate because I can listen to talk radio and concentrate when I paint, and I don't know, I just shut it off. My work is relatively, a lot of my work does have a lot of social commentary in it to begin with, so at this point I just kind of really not, I get the headlines, I look at the front page of the New York Times just to make sure. So, I went from a huge consumer of politics to pretty much not consuming it at this point.

J - Oh wow.

M - So.

J - Why do you think, Why do you think you're not really into it anymore?

M - Because I don't think this is going any place good, because I think we're just following a path that is following human nature to begin with. I don't think, I think the US thought itself to be immune to certain things, but it never was. So, I suppose for my own sanity, I mean life goes on. I'll do what I can, I've been going door to door for my local candidate, but I'm not terribly hopeful. 

J - Dang. You know, because it sounds like that's pretty much everyone's mindset. 

M - Well, you're voting, right?

J - Yeah, yeah.

M - You too?

J - Yeah.

M - And you're voting not just for, you're voting all the way down the line, right? All your local candidates?

J - Yes, only because I just, something needs to be like something needs to be done. Like just yesterday I know you've heard about the synagogue. (Referring to the mass shooting that happened in the synagogue, killing about 11 Jewish people)

M - Yeah.

J - The you know, with all those people. 

M - And they're all old and its terribly sad. I mean the young, I think the youngest was in his 50's. I mean one woman was in her 90's. 

J - I saw that and I saw that and just his (President Trump) response about what happened, he said well maybe if it wasn't armed, I mean if it was armed maybe this wouldn't happened. Like where is the compassion.

M - That's why I shut off the radio, see?

J - Like where is the compassion?

M - I think the best thing to do, I really do think at this point is the best thing to do is to work locally and worry about your local candidates and worry about who is on your board of education and who is your mayor, who is your state representatives, because I think the Federal right now, the Federal is going to go the direction that it's going to go, but if you can work from the bottom up, that's really what the Republicans have been doing. They were always very smart of what they did and this has been a long time coming and anybody watching could have seen it coming certainly at the minimum since the Reagan years. It's been coming, so I think that's the best thing.

I know even in my school board, my little crummy, my little tiny town's school board you couldn't pay me to vote for somebody if I didn't know they were at least a registered Democrat, minimum Democrat, I take it Democrat, Liberal, Socialist, whatever, whatever, but if they're a Republican I wouldn't vote them for dog capturer, promise.

J - Oh my goodness, oh my goodness. That's yeah, no, no, I definitely understand. So, I see that you have a camera right there.

M - Oh yeah.

J - Did you do photography too?

M - No. Well, I have to take, I'm taking some installation shots of my work while I'm here, so I can have a documentation of it. I had some, but they didn't come out very good and the light is a little better today for me to be able to take pictures, so that's why. No, I'm a terrible photographer. I do use it for when I need to. I use it because I had to take to document my work and that kind of thing, so.

J - So, how long have you been married?

M - I don't know since 1996. 

J - 22 years.

M - Is that what it is?

J - Yeah.

M - Yeah, I always forget.

J - I know because I was born in 1995.

M - Yeah, yeah, I know.

J - So.

M - So then I got married that year, and we got married at the New York Botanical Gardens, in the Bronx.

J - Wow. So, how do you, what is your advice on young couples like what do you do, I guess like to stay, what did you do to stay married so long like that?

M - I don't know, I don't know.

J - No, no, that sounds reasonable. Everybody does everything different, so.

M - I think you have to be flexible to rough out the good times and the bad times. You have to be able to ride out all the different ups and downs because I think life is hard and you always have to remember who it is that you always want to be there for even as you're fighting with each other and not to be scared of the fact that you fight each other. I don't know, I've been with my husband for a long time since we met, as a teenager I'm very lucky, but I do think that's part of it. Being able to not always expect everything to be, I never stay angry. Say we have a fight, I would never go to sleep angry. 

J - I heard that a lot. But sometimes it's hard because you're so mad.

M - So when I was really young, I was really angry at my husband and he went to sleep and I was so angry that he’d go to sleep because I was so agitated. I mean you shouldn't do this, but I took a cup of water and I poured it over him, so I woke him up. Anyway, I don't stay angry, he doesn't stay angry, we keep our eye on the ball. I would never insult, I would never call him insulting call or any kind of whatever, whatever, and you have to stay together because and I think it helps to not be rich. 

J - Oh well, that's true.

M - You have to be able to afford to divorce, right?

J - Yeah, it's true.

M - That's why so many stars get divorced they can afford it. So, if I left my husband I wouldn't be doing as well financially neither would he, he would be struggling. So I don't know lots of reasons, but do you want to know about Long Island City instead of my marriage , I don't know?

J - Well, yeah. I just want to cover all bases because

M - Yeah.

J- No, it's really interesting to talk about it. It's really interesting to talk to you, but okay, so Long Island City, I've never heard of this place.

M - You should walk around, we have an incredible view of the city. The piers, before you leave, you should go to the piers, I'll show you where to go.

J - Okay. I was also thinking about eating around here because we didn't eat before we came.

M - You can eat here. And this is more of, it's like a sandwich bar there's a lot of, you want more restaurant things, kind of things?

J - Yeah, yeah. I mean yeah.

M - Yeah. This is more of like a sandwich, It’s up to you, you can eat. You want to go get some food?

J - No, no. So, with Long Island City I just visited a place in Miami (Florida), it's called the Wynwood and I was kind of, since I’m not from around here, is there a lot of street art here?

M - Not really. Wynwood is sort of a design area.

J - Oh so you know about Wynwood, okay.

M - Yeah. Long Island City, there was nothing here, it was mostly warehouse buildings. A lot of furniture manufacturing and such. Like even the building that I ended up in had been a furniture manufacturer before it became an artist studio space. And as the furniture manufacturers and other industries moved away like they moved to North Carolina, artists moved into the empty spaces that were there. There is a famous street, but it was destroyed which was the graffiti building up this way across the street from P.S. 1 I’m blanking on the name, so you can look it up. It was quite famous and they actually won their court case, the artists, the graffiti artists sued the owner.

J - Yeah.

M - After he destroyed the building and they won, which was incredible.

J - So what kind of art are you into? Are you into like graffiti art, street art, classical paintings?

M - I'm more of a classical painting kind of person.

J - More of a classical painting?

M - Yes, I like people too established themselves for a couple of centuries before I paint them.

J - Yeah. 

M - Yeah.

J - So, have you

M – It’s not completely. I'm not a really good contemporary artist.

J - Have you visited like overseas like maybe like Rome and?

M - I've been to Europe.

J - Europe.

M - Yeah. I've been to Rome, I've been to Italy, I lived in France for a little while. So, I've been around a little bit. I have never been to Asia. 

J - Never been to Asia?

M - No. And I've never been, no but I've been to Europe.

J - How do you like France? Why did you move there?

M - My husband was working at the Natural History Museum in France, so we were there for a little while. My daughter was a baby when we were there.

A: Is your husband also an artist?

M - No, thank God. He's a scientist.

A: Wow.

M - You'll find a lot of artists and scientists get together. Oh that's so, that's so

A - I know you would think that.

J- Yeah, yeah you wouldn’t think that, yeah. 

M- very similar artists and scientists, yeah.

J - So, while in France do you think your art changed?

M - No, no. 

J - No?

M - You know I don't know when my art changed. I think art has just a way of sort of, I don't think France would have changed my art. Most of my art changes with anger, I think the angrier I get the more my art changes.

J - Why do you feel as though you get angry?

M - (Inaudible due to her whispering), true because I think my art is a little angry. So, I think the angrier I get the more my art changes, probably.

J - So

M - So the Trump here should do wonders for it I suppose, I don't know, let's see.

J - So, when you, do you paint when you're angry?

M - Yeah.

J - That's interesting, so.

M - Better than taking it out on my husband.

J - No, yeah definitely. So, when you do have that emotion do you feel like your paintings are a little bit better than like do you feel like you, like do you understand what I'm trying to say like do you?

M - It changes the concept, it clarifies the concept, so the angrier I get somehow my, the concept of what I’m thinking about becomes clearer to me. So, that I think helps. So sometimes whatever is the trigger for it, it has to be the kind of thing that you become obsessive about or you think over and over again and you can't stop thinking about it, and then my art will make a jump in a certain direction. If something like that causes me that kind of obsessive anger, not slight anger, but it has to be an obsessive anger.

A - What inspired you to do people in your art? Why people?

M - I think people are more interesting than places. I'm always fascinated at people that paint without people in there. To me I don't know, I don't see much else, I'm not that interested in… I don't know, I'm more interested I suppose in humanity and in people that I am in outside, and I think people often paint landscape and abstract paintings, because they don't want to be in their own head. I think in this kind of painting you have to really be in your own head, I think it takes a lot of strength to do it because it's a little dangerous. So, I think if you paint a landscape it's a little safer. Forgive me landscape painters, but it's, or landscape or abstract, I know it's very safe, a safe place to be.

J - What's your hardest, what you do think you can work on as far as your paintings go? Do you have something that you're not as good at, like some people are bad at painting noses or ears?

M - No, I can paint noses and ears.

J - Okay. Do you have something that you've always just had work? It's just really hard

M - I think in the urban landscape, because a lot of the perspective. Sometimes that would be my, if I, that's something that I have to really think hard about when I do it.

J - Urban landscape, what's urban landscape? Is it just something like this? (pointing at a painting on the wall)

M - If I wanted to paint buildings. If I wanted to paint, you know then I have to settle down and really concentrate whereas for people I don't have to concentrate.

J - Okay. So, when I was driving here we saw a building that was shaped like a K. It had a lot of windows.

M - It could be one of the hundreds of new buildings that kind of come up in this area in years, so.

J - Would you say that you wouldn’t, like or would you be interested in painting the new Queens?

M - The landscape of it?

J - The landscape of it.

M - No. The people of it sure, not the 

J - The people of it?

M - Yeah. I have no interest in painting the landscape of it.

J - That's interesting. Do you feel like it's just because of the gentrification that's going on? Like you just have no interest in the new change that is going on?

M - No. Queens has always been changing since I grew up here. It's amazing how different a place it is than when I grew up. It's been in a constant state of change, but I'm not interested and I enjoy experiencing the change, but I'm not interested in painting the change.

J - I like that. I'm not.

M - I don't know what I said.

J - I don't know what you, that was good, that was good, that was really really good.

M - I think that’s something like I'm interested in experiencing the change, but not painting the change because my paintings are internal more than external.

J - Internal. Internal, what does that mean?

M - It means that coming from inside me as opposed from coming outside me. 

J – Okay.

M - So if you're painting the visual landscape, a lot of that painting is coming from the external forces, mine are coming from internal forces.

J - Who is your favorite artist?

M - Dead or alive? Can we go with dead? We'll go with dead, it's easier. I like Alice Neel.

J -Who? Alice?

M - Alice Neel.

J - Alice Neel. What interested you in her type of style?

M - She is, I think if you want to call her contemporary which I think you can, she is the best figurative contemporary painter that I know, in my opinion.

J - What about alive?

M - I don't know, alive makes it hard and I have a lot of friends all mixed in in there. I don't know it's hard to say. I'm not going to go with a live.

J - No, no, no, you're fine, you're fine. So, do you like where art is going in 2018? Like, do you, I'm not really into like painting and art, but like do you like where it's going?

M - I'm not really, you know the kind of work I do is not really within the art world. I'm still outside the art world because the kind of work that's going on, you won't see my kind of work at a contemporary art museum, you're not going to see my kind of work at the Whitney or any other place like that. So, I think anyone who does the kind of painting I'm doing is working outside the art world not in it. 

So, I don't know how to answer that question because art is not what people think art is. I think if you don't have someone who is an artist or someone who is in the art world then I think it's hard to sort of wrap your brain around what art is. Because art is pretty broad right now, and if I went to any place out there, any gallery or anything, I'm not going to see a whole lot of painting. 

Yeah. And you might see the paintings still sells to some degree, but even so they are really only, the selling is mostly done on the secondary market now anyway. So, I don't know. I'm not, I don't feel myself being part of the contemporary art world. 

J - What would you say your style of art that you're paintings? What would you say, what would you call it?

M – Figurative, figurative.

J - Oh you mean? You did say that.

M - Yeah, yeah figurative I think would be the closest definition probably contemporary figurative art.

J - Contemporary figurative and then figurative would just be like the actual person?

M – Yeah, it’s a person. I mean it’s obviously it's not just a, I'm not just painting portraits that would, so they have with certain kind of commentary, so with a social point of view. 

A - So like the art that you have on the wall here, right? I noticed that it's always the two same women, but they are in different outfits pertaining to what's in the background I guess.

M - So what is in the shadows in the background.

A - So like for example the one right above you, it's a whole bunch of people holding guns and stuff like that and one of the girls has a dress on it for a target and it pertains to that background.

M - Yeah.
	
A - And it's so.

M - She also has rubber duckies on the dress too as well.

A - Yeah, so it's and then.

J - What's the significance?

M - Because it's like a duck target practice, and the other girls wearing camouflage for a jacket, their shorts are the stripes from an American flag.

A - And why the doll, why the?

M - And the t-shirt she is wearing is the NRA logo.

A - Yeah.

M - The doll is Raggedy Ann because that is about as American a dollar you're going to get.

J - Also what was your inspiration behind that?

A - Because they are all four pieces, were they all created at the same time?

M - The ones with the guns, this one was I don't remember now. I think this might have been the first one with the guns, and then I have others like I don't remember the order. You can see the first one too which is different which has instead of having two girls you have a boy in them. So, but if you, I think the gun he is holding it says bang, right? So it has like a, you have a lot of popular culture commentary using a fair amount of appropriation from other sources in the work. 

J - So what was your inspiration behind that one (pointing st her paintings)? I see there's a lot of animal tribe, like print.

M - Right. So then I have to look at that.

A - Are they, because the way

M - They are having sex. The animals, yeah.

A - That's what I thought they were

J - I didn't even catch that.

M - Yes. yeah.

J - Oh.

M - Right. And so the girls are wearing all animal prints and I think, I can't remember I have to look at it to see which animal prints they are wearing, and I think if I'm not mistaken, sorry I forget my own work too. I'm saying, but yeah. So, it's the same thing. So, it's really about guns, violence, sex.

J - So, would you call this kind of like a series painting? So, do you remember which one you did first?

M - I'm not sure. I think it might have been the guns that I did first, but I'm not sure. There's one at home that I might have done before this, but it might be the one with the guns that I did first, very likely, yeah.

J - What prompted you to paint this kind of series?

M - I'm sure it was a gun shooting that I heard about. I'm sure, there's been so many lately that I can't possibly tell you which one it was, but if you look at the shadows too it's not just that they're pointing guns, it's not just that they're pointing guns at the figures, but they’re also, there's at least one shadow that is also suicidal.

J - Oh my god, yeah, right there.

M - So, I'm sure it was one of like I said many shootings.

J - Many shootings. I noticed that you have, you said that you have a 12 year old. Are you afraid for?

M - For him?

J - Yeah.

M - He poses for me. That's him in the front painting.

J - Oh, he is in one of your paintings.

M - Like my kids are actually in a lot of my paintings. They always pose for me, often pose for me. They are cheap, they are free and they are around. So, they are very good natured. Am I afraid for him? Yeah. 

J - With them. I always, like for like the first day of school was just, I saw a couple of posts on social media just saying oh, I pray that my kid is safe and I don't like that. It's just school is supposed to be a safe haven and.

M - You know as a parent nothing makes me angrier than the fact that every time something happens, what happens in my kids school is that they end up more lockdown, like now the kids can only come and go out in one entrance and there's barriers so that they have like, I don't know what you call it, like plastic whatever that keeps the parents out and people out, and then the kids wear this high tech IDs and the principal has video camera surveillance in his office now. So, that's what they have done, and every time something happens the schools gets less of a place to just be and more of almost like a prison. 

J - I know, yeah.

M - And you don't see kids walking on the streets much, so it's kind of sad because when you compare where I grew up in Queens in Parkway Village where I walked out my door and I was out for hours upon hours and the only, and all I knew is that my father would come out on the step and he'd whistle and because everybody in the village knew his whistle the news would travel until it got to me and then I knew to go home. But I don't see that with my kids, they are all, they live in very cloistered environments where people are always keeping them safe. I think that's probably why I bet you a lot of kids have trouble now at college and going away, because I think they are getting, people are rightfully protecting them because you want to protect your kids, but they have lost the freedom.

J - I like that. So, when your daughter goes off to college, are you going to be comfortable with her like?

M - I have no choice.

J - Does she want to stay in?

M - I don't know. Let's see what she wants and we'll give her a bunch of options, we'll see, it depends on how much it costs and we'll see what happens.

J - Is she into art?

M - She is into art. She likes art.

J - She likes art.

M - But, I think she's smart enough not to be an artist, so.

J - Does she do it on her free time? Does she like a painter like you? Does she like drawing?

M - No, no, no, but she's creative. You know art is, I think art, people make a mistake, they think art is about just drawing. Anybody can draw, but you have to go beyond that to be an artist. You can't just draw and just paint, you have to, there has to be something else behind it. So, you have to have I think a creative mind and that's where it becomes, it is where a scientist is a lot like an artist, you have to, it's about the creativity behind what you're doing. How you express it, maybe you express it as an artist or you express it as a scientist or you express it as someone in communication, but it's what’s behind it that makes it interesting, otherwise you're just an address.

J - So what advice would you give in aspiring artist who does want to pursue their dreams and?

M - Go to med school.

J - Yeah.

M - Yeah. Oh really, I'm not joking. 

J - Oh man. No, I know that there are some, a couple of artists that would love, just make a living off of selling their art and.

M - Some do. Don't get me wrong, some do. All I'm saying is that it takes certain, certain things have to align to be able to make, I think make money from selling your art. I think there’s, you have to have the right kind of personality. We have to play your cards right, you have to be, an artist has to be a business person, that's forgotten a lot. I have to be as good as business person as I am at making my paintings because if I'm not, I'm not going to make it. The fact is I'm not such a good business person, so I struggle a lot more than someone who would be a better business person, but maybe not as good as an artist.

So, you're self-employed as an artist so you have to worry about all those self-employment kind of issues like whether you have health insurance, how do you get health insurance if you're self-employed. So, if I were to give my advice to my kids it would be absolutely not to be a visual artist. But I wouldn't tell them, if they wanted to, Id be a 100% in support if they wanted to, but you know.

J - So, what painting, I'm sure you've painted a lot of pieces. Do you, what one piece would you want to be remembered for like?

M - I don't know. 

J - You don't know?

M - I haven't made it yet.

J - Oh okay.

M - No, I think my work is better with everything I make. So, until I die. So, ask me at my death bed.

J - Okay, so besides your paintings, what's one thing that you would want to be remembered by maybe something that's passed down to your kids, and their kids, which one thing that you just, which one thing that you would want people to remember about you?
M - I was a good mother. 

J - That's good, that's good, that's good. Sorry, I'm just like engulfed in my own thoughts.

M - Yeah. You want to pause and think about what you want to ask? You can do that, it's okay with me.

J - Yeah. No, you know what, I remember because I like, the reason why I didn't really prepare any questions, I wanted us to be more organic as possible. So, that's probably why and sometimes I'm like engulfed in my own thoughts.

M – Now are you going to send me, so I have an audio of this too?

J - Of course, yeah, yeah, yeah of course.

M – All right.

J - Of course, of course. This will be yours, so you'll have complete ownership of this. So, in any event that I want to, I don't know not sell it, but I wouldn't

M - I don't think anybody is going to want to buy it.

J - No, no, no, but like you will have complete ownership. So, if I would want to give it to Queens College or another organization.

M - So, my MFA is from Queens College too.

J - Ha, I'm sorry?

M - My MFA is from Queens College.

J - No, not Queens College. Queens Library.

M - Oh okay. No as you say, yeah.

J - Yeah, so I would always let you know where your voice is going to go and you'll have complete ownership with it. Just say we do monetize over it, I don't think so. I don't think we would ever, because this is supposed to be a free kind of thing, so.

M - Right.

J - Yeah, but you'll know.

M - Okay.

J - I'll definitely let you know. So, as far as the list that we got, who contacted you about it? Like how did you know that your name was going to be on the list?

M - I think they contacted the Long Island City Artists which is a non-profit group and they look for recommendations and they recommended me, because I think it's a small community, it used to be a small community and so we all kind of know each other, so.

J - Have you ever done this before? Like were you like, is this a reoccurring thing where people come in and interview you?

M - No, but what's interesting as over the years I have a quite few people come to take pictures of me and my studio. That was a thing for a while.

J - Oh okay.

M - Yeah.

J - Only because I'm wondering only because maybe I don't know would you want to be interviewed every year by different students?

M - I don't care, I like young people.

J - Oh yeah. What else? What else? 

M - You can pause for a sec, once you pause for a second think about it. 

J – Can I pause.

M - I know that when they contacted me they seemed to be interested in having people that were from this neighborhood, so they seemed to want to know about the neighborhood. At least that was my thought.

A - Okay, I have one for you. If you, let's say you grew up now in 2018 and you're 20 years old, how do you think your art would have changed as opposed to growing up back then? Do you think you would have taken a different path? Do you think you would have stepped with the same premise of people, stuff like that?	

M - I don't think I would have taken a different path. I think I would make just the same dumb decisions I made then that I will make now.

J - What would, what advice would you give to yourself, your 20 year old self?

M - To take advantage of the really wonderful opportunities that I did have that I don't think I took as good advantage of some of the opportunities that I had over my time.

J - If you were to do it over again, would you still be an artist?

M - No. 

J - What would you be?

M - I don't know. I love making art. I think it's caused me a lot of misery. I'm just, I think it's a really rough field to be in and I think it's, and I think that this is not a good time to be an artist, I think. So, I mean it's not fair to say I know people often think that you're supposed to be, you couldn’t be nothing else, but you had to be an artist, and I don't think that that's, I think there's a lot of creative endeavors. I think as long as you're creative, I mean I love making art. I just didn't think it would be, I didn't think being an artist would be so difficult. 

I'm happy, I'm lucky, I'm lucky to live a creative life, but I think it's not the, it's a very idealized world. I think people from the outside think of romanticized artists and their lifestyle and who they are and what they are, but in fact it's a pretty brutal lifestyle. 

J - Do you see yourself opening up another studio not here, but somewhere else?

M - Yeah, I do. Absolutely, yeah. I think I'm sort of I'm working, I mean I have a studio, it's just in my home. But I do have a whole room to myself. So, I do have a studio. Will I eventually convert my garage into a studio or move away or get another studio? Yeah, I don't think I'll ever have another studio in any of the burrows of New York City anymore.

J - And when did you find, your city was here in Long Island City and you lived in Long Island City you say?

M - No, I lived in Astoria since the mid 90's I lived in Astoria.

J - So how did you find, was this always like, this place, I'm sorry. You said that your studio was in here.

M - I found Astoria first before I found Long Island City. I found Astoria because I was with my husband, oh he wasn't my husband at the time, I guess I was with my boyfriend on the subway and his back went out and we got out of the train and it was in Astoria and I looked around and said I can do this and the rent was cheap, I think it was $500 a month, I believe my apartment. So, we settled into Astoria and then I needed to find studio space, and I think I would not have thought about Long Island City had I not been from Queens because Queens has quite a, nobody from the outside world was ever going to come to Queens. Maybe there are a little bit now, the outside world, and when I say the outside world I mean I think, what I'm saying is that the sophisticated college student from the Midwest who wants to make it big in New York wasn't going to come to Queens.

So, that meant that the neighborhood around here was sustainable for a long time because we kept it quiet. It was a lot of serious artists that were working here, but there was not much of a scene here. There wasn't a party scene, there wasn't a lot going on, there were just people making their art. 

A - Could you say that Queens influenced your artwork?

M - Yes.

A - How so?

M - I just think, I think Queens is a very, I think because in Queens you always had to be on a state of change. You have to be always in a state of creativity to survive in Queens. It's not a quiet place, it's sort of a moving place, and so to keep up with Queens and keep up with art you have to keep up with Queens, you have to keep up with each other.

J - Okay.

A - And it makes sense because that's how, I can tell in your work that its relevant and that's why you're keeping up with.

M - Yeah, yeah.

A - It shows, it shows. 

J - So, you said that you lived in Astoria, I mean sorry. You lived in Astoria, you had your studio in Astoria too?

M - I did work when I lived alone in Astoria. I did work at home in my flippy slippers and I wouldn’t go out for like I think for days, but I did work from home. But eventually I stopped working from home because my husband moved in with me, although like I said I don't think we were married at the time, but I can't remember. And then I needed a space to work, and then I got a space like everything that was done in Long Island City, I got a space by word of mouth because everything was who you, to get a space in Long Island City was never easy. 

I think Brooklyn you could find a realtor to get a space, but in Long Island City it was you had to know somebody and so I knew somebody and they told us about the space. Anything I’ve ever, anything in Long Island City was always like that.

J - So your friends that, was it a shared space?

M - My first space was a shared space and the person that got me the space, my connection was because I spent about three and half years at the Art Students League, do you know what the Art Student League, is?

J - No.

M - That's on 57th street around 7th avenue and it's an old fashioned art school where people that want to learn how to paint in an old fashioned way go. So, I went there for about three and half years, and I knew, so that was my connection to I knew somebody from there. Here, he got me the space and everything. Everything is tied to that, yeah.

J - Are you still friends with most of your art friends?

M - Yeah, yeah, most of them.

J - Are they finding it, not no, I mean do they still have studios around here or do they kind of branch out in other places as well?

M - I should say the people that had studio spaces over long periods of time have already moved on, because we've all been gentrified out, but I still know plenty of artists that have spaces here. 

J - Is it because they are, are they working like with art and then working like a day job or is it just because they?

M - Yeah, you know every artist is different and how they support themselves is all very different, yeah.

J - I'm just thinking about how like what is this city planning on doing, like with this whole gentrification thing, like you don't know, but I'm just like thinking out loud like are they trying to, I would think they would want to keep the real authentic art.

M - Why?

J - Because it's 

A - Its part of history

J - It's a part of history, it's a part of history, why would they want to 

M - Because it's money. You know maybe they’ll give a little lip service and try to make it viable for artists to some degree. But if you have somebody who can pay $5,000 a month rent, why would you do that?

J - Because just knowing that there are artists out here that can

M - So?

J - Yeah, you know.

M - You know I'm just saying.

J - Yeah.

M - This is why it's hard to be an artist. I can't compete with somebody working on Wall Street, and if somebody on Wall Street wants that space, they are going to get that space, and I can't count on them being a good person or believing in the arts. I can't count on that.

J - If you were in charge of Long Island City, like if you could stop the gentrification here, what would be your plans as far as like would you let people not like obviously paint, not like have a city for free, but like what would be your ideas to kind of keep art here old like how it was back then?

M - Back when I got a studio, when I was yeah?

J - Yeah, but would you keep it like that, would you like what would be your?

M - When I was in Long Island City you wouldn't recognize it at all. It was mostly, it was closed down on the weekends, there was nobody walking around, because it was really a hard hat neighborhood. So you had the guys in hard hats here during the week and you'd have like little delis where you could get like chicken parmesan and there was no, there was none of this. This café came in well after me. I wouldn't do anything, I’d just let it be.

Yeah, I think what an artist needs, the artist needs, if people really want artists then you need to have universal healthcare. That would make it viable to be an artist, an artist is no different than any freelancer. So, if you want people that work freelance then there has to be a viable way to survive. So, you have to have universal healthcare and affordable living. I don't think affordable living is going to happen in New York City as long as people want to be here, they all pay to be here and right now given the politics, I don't see how we're going to have universal healthcare. So, I don't think it's viable for artists.

J - Do you see yourself settling in New York or do you see yourself living somewhere else in…?

M - You know I would love to be, certainly it would be my preference to be in New York City if I had my way, but it's not viable. It's just you know, it's not sustainable. 

J - You said that your mom still lives where you grew up.

M - My mom is dead.

J - Oh my god. Oh my god. Sorry. Oh my god. 

M - That's okay.

J - So well, let me rephrase that. Did your mom stay in that area when once you separated?

M - Yeah, she never left. She died there, yeah.

J - Oh okay. And then when you, where did you live when you moved from your mom?

M - For four and a half years I lived on Long Island in a small town called West Hempstead Long Island in Nassau County.

J - Oh okay. And then you moved from there?

M - And then I went out to college and the house was shutdown in there because everybody that was there moved away, and I think, so I lived upstate New York while in college and then my dad ended up in Bayside Queens, so I come back to visit him there.

J - Have those areas changed as well?

M - Bayside, I mean I always imagined it's more expensive. Well, actually Bayside has got much more Asian, a much larger Asian community has moved in to Bayside, because that's where all along the north shore and Flushing. So, as for where I grew up the UN is not there anymore, so that's changed a lot, that's not what it was. The UN school I should say moved out.

J - The UN school. Oh from the people that you grew up with. Okay, I remember. All right, I think, oh yeah, all right. I think, unless there's anything that you want to say, being that it’s in the archives, is there anything that somebody from 2132 would want to know about Maria Spector?

M - No.

J - No? All right.
