Queens Memory Project
Oral History Interview Timecode Outline

Neighborhood:			Pomonok
Date of Interview:			September 19, 2017 
Time Period:				1950 – 2000
Interviewee Date of Birth:		Please Add
Name of interviewee:			Alan Stark
Name of Interviewer:			Jacqueline Colson	
Length of Interview:			30 minutes, 38 seconds
Name of Editor:			M Alam
Editing software			Adobe Soundbooth
Timecode Outline Preparer:		Fran Kipnis


00:00:48	Alan works as the Beacon Director in M.S. 216 in Fresh Meadows. The Beacon is sponsored by the Samuel Field Y and funded by the New York City Department of Youth and Community Development. This is his 24th year in the Beacon world and his fourth year as director.
00:01:25	Alan was born on the Lower East Side of New York, on Montgomery Street. He moved to the Pomonok Houses in Flushing Queens, when he was three years old. He lived in the Pomonok Houses until he was in his twenties. 
00:02:09	Pomonok was a very unique place to grow up, with lots of kids (Baby Boom after World War Two).  Every building had a multitude of young people. You started in your own court and worked your way to the park at P.S. 201 or the community center. As you got older, you ventured more and more outside your neighborhood.
00:02:43	Being inside your neighborhood was a very secure, safe place to be, with lots to do, organized or not.  There were different sports for different months of the year.
00:03:34	Alan created a film of about the Pomonok Houses. He thought it would be an interesting film about growing up in the 1950’s and 1960’s, about what the world was like back then. He started it in the 1980’s, but nothing came of it.  About twenty years later, he partnered with Terry Katz, who also lived at Pomonok and is a professional film editor. The movie is Pomonok Dreams.
00:04:29	Pomonok was an interesting place to grow up for a lot of different reasons: making friends, having friends for a life time, families getting together and spending time together. Families looked out for each other. With everything new and changing in the world, living in Pomonok helped him to relate to that. 
00:05:25	When Alan was a child, he and his friends explored the housing complex basements, played blind man’s bluff, played in the storage rooms, played ringolevio, punch ball, baseball, softball, stoop ball, and stick ball.
00:06:22	When he and his friends got a little older, they started listening to the big kids talk about girls and growing up, and as they got older they ventured out into the playground and met kids who grew up in the other courts and other places too. The park was so popular people came from other neighborhoods – there was city-funded Shakespeare in the Park and Harvest Moon dances. Families brought chairs and watched performances. It was exciting - something special in the neighborhood.
00:07:26	Alan started working for the Pomonok Community Center, as part of the Urban Corp, in his teens. 
00:07:59	Pomonok was public housing, funded by the New York City Housing Authority, but the kids did know what that meant. It was a clean and nice place to live.
00:08:35	The maintenance men kept the buildings clean, people looked out for each other, and the families kept the housing project very clean. The grass was mowed, and families were kept off the grass with fines.  Every spring, a truck came with pesticides. The kids jumped behind the truck and sucked in the air. They did not know what was in the pesticides back then.
00:09:48	There was a library in the community center – it opened Alan up to the world of books. He learned how to play pool, work with his hands in the shop. There were boy scouts, cub scouts, girl scouts. They learned how to play all types of sports. It was a great place to go. The children could come and go as they pleased. Parents knew where they were.
00:10:42	Alan still lives in the neighborhood called Electchester.  He was filming in Pomonok for four years so was back at the Pomonok Houses. His mother moved out in 2000, so had not been back much before he started filming.  Now, there is not enough money for upkeep as it should be. The people are trying hard, struggling to maintain the rent and keep the environment the way it should be.
00:11:51	P.S. 201 was a two-minute walk from his house, but Alan had to attend P.S. 163 on the other side of the Long Island Expressway. 
00:12:53	P.S. 201 then built new wing in the 1950s, and the younger P.S. 163 students could go there, but Alan had to stay at P.S.163.  
00:13:27	Alan remembered when New York City Mayor John Lindsay came to Pomonok – he came to the community center. President John F. Kennedy came in 1960 when he was campaigning for president. Alan watched the motorcade from Jewel Avenue and Parsons Blvd. Thousands of people were watching the motorcade – it was a big deal.
00:14:26	Celebrities from Pomonok: Vic Hershkowitz, the greatest American handball player, played in P.S. 201 park. The Doo-wop group the Cleftones practiced at Pomonok. Other celebrities included: Irv Gikofsky also known as Mr. G on radio and television, Mike Starr (a character actor), Billy Starr, Mike’s brother, who played football for the Jets.
00:16:30	Queens College is next to Pomonok Houses and was a great resource for people growing up there. Alan and his friends would sneak into the gym in the summer to play basketball.  They would also sneak into the swimming pool. The college would invite all the camps from other parts of the city to swim in the pool.  He and his friends would blend in with the kids from the day camps. They would play basketball as they got older in the gym at night.  They attended concerts at Colden auditorium. They saw great groups of the 1960s and 1970s: Janis Joplin, the Grateful Dead, Billy Joel, The Byrds, Laura Mulva, and the J. Geils Band, many great rock and roll concerts. They would get in without a ticket.
00:18:06	There were anti-war protests and rallies in the 60’s held at Queens College. There were protest marches from Queens all the way to Manhattan on the Long Island Expressway. The unity of that time was fabulous. 
00:18:34	When Alan was about twelve, he and his friends tried to find glimpses of the nude models at the Queens College night-time art classes.   
00:19:25	The college also has wide open fields and they would play football.
00:19:45	Everyone got along before the Civil Right Era, there was no big deal internally. As he got older, he understood that people were not treated right on the outside and things had to change. Pomonok was a very liberal place and the neighbors were from all from different backgrounds.
00:20:33	People were judged by whether you were a good person or not, not the color of your skin, your ethnicity, or your religion.
00:20:57	During the 1960s, most of the residents were Roman Catholic or Jewish. There was a Lutheran Church on the corner.  In December, you could look up and tell, by the lights on the windows, what religion people were. People were proud to share their religion.  Families celebrated Christmas and Jewish holidays. 
00:22:11	There was always a rivalry with Electchester. Electchester eventually got air conditioning. Alan lived on Parsons Boulevard and could hear their air conditioners. There were sports rivalries and snow ball fights. Electchester was thought of as one step up, but they really didn’t think that much about it. Electchester was slower to integrate. The two groups of kids mixed together in school. There is still a rivalry, but Alan always sides with Pomonok.
00:24:10	Alan’s first marriage lasted for three years. In 1988, he married again and is still married. His wife did not come from the neighborhood. She was from Florida and grew up on Long Island.
00:24:44	Many of Alan’s friends married neighborhood girls. This perpetuated the friendships because the girls were friends too. Alan did not do that.
00:25:06	Alan has two children. His daughter, age 29, is a VP at JP Morgan Chase. She lives in Manhattan. His son, age 24, plays professional basketball in Israel.  This is his third season. The apartment is very quiet now.
00:25:48	His wife is black. He did not seek that out. They met at the right place at the right time. It was a not a big deal for either of them. They raised their children as bi-racial. They did not lose friends, people were not against it. His wife is more conscious of people staring, but he does not recalls any bad incidents. Alan is proud of how his children were raised.
00:27:25	Alan’s children went to school in District 26, P.S. 221. He worked at Samuel Field Y, so he needed a bus that would take them to the Y so he could pick them up after work.  They did not go to school in Electchester or Pomonok so they had many friends outside the neighborhood. His son also had many friends in the neighborhood because he played sports, but his daughter’s friends are mainly from outside the neighborhood.
00:28:30	Queens is a lot of people with interesting stories. Queens is a unique place because of the diversity. The complexion of the borough is changing, getting browner. There are people from countries Alan did not know existed when he was growing up. Downtown Flushing is transformed today, it is like an international city – you would not know where you are. As Director of the Beacon program, he deals with parents from all different backgrounds. The changes are amazing to him as is the diversity of people he comes in contact with. Growing up in Pomonok helped him understand diversity.  Queens is thriving because of that diversity.
