Queens Memory Project
Oral History Interview Timecode Outline
	
Neighborhood (if any):			
Date of Interview: 			February 13, 2017
Time Period:				
Interviewee Date of Birth:			 February 19, 1938
Name of interviewee:			 Judith Steele
Name of interviewer:			 Alice Ostrowsky 
Length of interview:			 1 hr, 05 min, 38 sec
Name of editor: 				 M Alam
Editing software: 				 Adobe Soundbooth
Timecode Outline Preparer: 		 M Alam

Summary:			

00:01:05				Judith notes that she’s doing this interview for the sake of future generations. It’s important for her because Judith has two children and four grand-children. She’s a survivor of the holocaust. Judith needs to tell her story to bring peace to the world. She wants people to stop killing each other 
00:02:28				She lost her parents in World War II. Judith still remembers people being taken away.  An organization separated the children and parents. They took the parents to Auschwitz. She never saw her family again.

00:03:48				Judith starts talking about her childhood. She was born in Berlin. She’s glad that she’s alive to tell her story. Judith’s mentioned a crazy man who convinced the world that Jews are evil. She said his name was, ‘Adolf Hitler’.

00:05:45				Judith’s parents were taken to camps. They were tortured and killed. This was in 1938.  Judith was the only child. 

00:08:05				Judith recalls a famous night in November, 1938. It was called ‘Kristallnacht’ which translates to ‘Night of Crystal’. 

00:09:10	*			She doesn’t remember what happened to her parents because she was only 14 months old at the time of Kristallnacht. It was then when her parents desperately tried to get out of Germany. After many attempts, Judith’s parents were finally able to book a passage on a ship. The name of the ship was SS St. Louis. Her parents took all the money they had left. Their business was destroyed. Her family name is Coppell. Her father was a fur dealer and her mother was a milliner. She remembers that her parents were very gentle and loving people. It took the ship ten days to go from Hamburg, Germany to the harbor of Havana. The ship stayed in the harbor of Havana for ten days, because they weren’t able to land in Cuba. Judith’s uncle’s family came to the ship from Cuba to talk to her parents and told them to give them Judith. Judith didn’t understand what was going on. They were rejected in Cuba. She remembers the ship’s captain’s name, ‘Gustav Schröder’. He tried to save everyone’s lives by trying to go to one of the countries in the Western Hemisphere. But, they were rejected from all of them. They were chased away from Miami coast by the American Coast Guard and they told the captain that they were violating United States’ territory. The order came directly from President Roosevelt.  

00:15:02				Judith mentions that they had to go back to Europe. She has a picture of her mother on the ship where her mother has a horrified reaction upon hearing that they have to turn the ship back to Europe. 

00:16:24				She learned most of her history from the story of the Voyage of the St. Louis. Judith was on it with her parents and her grandfather. 

00:17:13				Her family chose to go to France. They went to a town called ‘Nay’ in the southern part of France. They were safe there. They rented an apartment in the home of a French Catholic family. Judith recalls the happy memories there.

00:19:42	*			In August of 1942, France was occupied by Nazis. The police came to their apartment and told Judith and her family to leave with them. Her grandfather was left behind, because he was sick. As Judith, her mother, and her father were getting ready to leave, her grandfather was lying in bed and crying. Judith comforted her grandfather before leaving. The police took them to a camp called ‘Gurs’. From Gurs they took them to another camp called ‘Rivesaltes’. She has very vague memories of that, but the memories she has are forever stuck in her mind. Rivesaltes was the camp where the Nazis gathered the Jews before taking them to Auschwitz. She was in a long house where they put the children. She recalls her mother playing with her and suddenly stopping to tell her, “Judi I want you to be a good girl. Mommy and daddy have to go away.” Judith still remembers the look on her mother’s face.  

00:23:30				Judith’s father took her to an organization called ‘OSE’ that were taking the children to safety. She recalls this whole event perfectly. This was the day the last saw her parents. She remembers crying for her parents the next day.

00:25:25	*			Judith remembers the next day and saw that all the adults were taken away to Auschwitz. She was taken back to the house where they rented before by the OSE. Her grandfather was extremely happy to see Judith. Judith was malnourished. Her landowner, also her second mother nourished her back to ‘life’. Doctor said Judith wouldn’t survive, but she nourished her back to normal. Judith spent one month in the camp.  She remained with this family throughout the war. They never tried to change Judith’s religion. They treated her righteously. Judith made sure to write their names in the Holocaust memorial in Jerusalem. Their names are there in the Garden of the Righteous. They risked their lives to save Judith’s life.

00:30:25				Judith shows pictures from her childhood. 

00:31:20				She talks about what happened after the war ended. She went to school in France for four years. She recalls some silly moments from her childhood. She remembers when she was going to the doctor, Nazis came in and started shooting. She ran to a jewelry store to hide. The Nazis wanted to take over the town. The mother ran down to the store to protect them. 

00:39:22				Judith recalls the moment when her second mother protected her and a Jewish gentleman she was hiding in the attic. When the Nazi came to the door, Judith’s mother dressed her normally and made sure her hair covered her ears. Nazis had a superstition that Jewish people have big ears. She also told Judith not to speak at all. 

00:42:47			When the war ended, Judith went to a camp and spent few months in the summer time with OSE. She was in the camp with orphans. Judith didn’t want to stay there. Her second mother went to pick her up. 

00:44:00				Judith recalls a comedic moment when she first got drunk. She had her passage to America arranged. Her second mother was very sad when Judith had to go to America. OSE wanted to reunite Judith to her blood relatives. 

00:49:00				She was afraid of getting rejected by her new family because she had lice in her hair. The ship went to New York. The ship wasn’t allowed to land in New York because of dock strike. However President Truman made special accommodation for the children in the ship. Then she met her new family, which was her aunt and uncle.

00:51:40			Judith describes the first time she came to New York. It was a strange feeling to her. She wanted to go back to France. She wanted to see her mother again. 

00:51:50				She describes the moment she reunited with her second mother. Judith thanked her for saving her. 














 PAGE   \* MERGEFORMAT 4



Queens Library, Library Services Dept., Attn: Natalie Milbrodt, 89-11 Merrick Blvd. Jamaica, NY 11432
For More Information, Contact: Director, Natalie Milbrodt (Natalie.Milbrodt@queenslibrary.org)



