Queens Memory Project
Oral History Interview Timecode Outline

City:				Jackson Heights
Neighborhood (if any)
Date of Interview		May 25, 2017
Interviewee Date of Birth	January 26, 1972
Name of interviewee		Neal Anthony Stone
Name of interviewer		Fran Kipnis
Length of interview		1 hour 29 minutes 31 seconds
Name of editor		M Alam
Editing software		Adobe Soundbooth
Timecode Outline Preparer:	Fran Kipnis

Summary: 
Neal Stone is a third-generation Canadian.  He talks about the important values of community engagement and contributing to the community he learned from his four grandparents as well as his parents. He moved to Manhattan in 1998 as an urban planner, after receiving a bachelor’s and master’s degree in Canada and working on human rights issues in the Philippines.  His work as a NYC urban planner has helped him understand many of the infrastructure and political issues facing Queens and the rest of the City.  Neal lived in Manhattan and Brooklyn before he moved to Jackson Heights in 2006.  He loves living in Jackson Heights because of its LGBT culture as well as the vast diversity of the community.  He has been very involved in the Queens Pride Committee and the Queens Pride Lions Club. Neal talks a lot about ‘jumping into new adventures” - starting college, going to the Philippines, and moving to NYC from a small town in Canada. 

00:01:16 	Neal has lived in Jackson Heights for 11 years, loves living here, and might wind up being here forever.  But 30 years ago, this was the last place on the map he thought he would be.
00:01:43	Neal grew up in small town in east central Saskatchewan: Kamsack. This area was originally settled in 1880’s.
00:03:17	There was a mass exodus of eastern Europeans to this area in late 1880’s. His maternal great grandparents came from Eastern Europe. His paternal great grandparents were Norwegian and British. 
00:05:04 	His paternal grandfather was a postal service worker; his grandmother was an RN. His mother’s family was from an agricultural background. They homesteaded the land. These are big families with lots of cousins. This grandmother later became a health care worker and his grandfather became a handyman/carpenter. His grandparents were great role models, believing in neighborhood, community service, and community development.
00:07:31	Neal’s parents were both public school teachers and were high school sweethearts.
00:08:36 	Neal talked about the level of commitment his parents had to the well-being of their students. As he grew older, he appreciated how much love and energy goes into teaching and has tremendous respect for his parents and the public- school system. He now understands the challenges and hardships faced by educators in the public-school system. 
00:10:30	Because of his grandparents and parents, both he and his sister chose activities and careers that brought them to community betterment.
00:11:09	 Neal went to college in the 1990’s. He started at the University of Manitoba. He thought he would be an architect, then a landscape architect. He got his degree, but was still not sure what he wanted to do. He did a variety of jobs, gained experience living in a bigger city, and was involved in political campaigns. He was still not sure about a career. 
00:14:54 	Neal started a Masters’ Degree program at the University of Winnipeg in Public Administration but that didn’t quite fit either. He was active in the Royal Air Cadets in high school, which focused on learning to fly a plane, leadership building, and commitment to the community. Between this BA and MA, he acted as an instructor for younger cadets.  
00:19:44	He was advised to try a City Planning program at University of Manitoba. He registered for the Masters of City Planning program – just to see if he would like it. 
00:20:53	Neal enjoyed the classmates in this program. They were from diverse places and experiences. They became very close. He caved into peer pressure and became a full-time student and more committed to the profession. All his fellow students became professional colleagues and long-term friends, who keep nurturing his work.
00:23:34	After he graduated with his master’s degree, Neal wanted to travel overseas. He wanted to do some cross-cultural work before settling in as a city planner.
00:25:28	He talked with his local minister about oversees work with the United Church of Christ. 
00:27:00	He decided to go to the Philippines. There was a position open for environmental education which he felt was relevant to his education. When he got there, the environmental education position did not exist. He was offered a human rights position and decided to give it a try. 
00:28:28	It was a great experience. Neal was excited about the people, made new friends, and learned a new language and culture. He stayed a year and a half.
00:29:13	He left the Philippines as a new person – an enhanced student of the world, experiencing globalization, cultural diversity and richness. He talked about it being a metamorphic experience. 
00:30:30	After the Philippines, Neal went back to Kamsack, living in his parent’s basement, not working yet, with nowhere to go. He always loved the west coast of Canada and the US and applied for work in Vancouver, Victoria, Seattle, and Portland.
00:31:30	He then saw a posting and applied for a job “in a place called Westchester County”.  He had been in NYC once, before he went to the Philippines.
00:32:33	Neal’s first trip to NY was a graduation present to himself. He assumed he would never get back to NY because he would live on the west coast. He stayed in Chelsea at the YMCA. His impression of the City was that it was exciting, but old, dense, dirty a not what he was used to. He was convinced he would never live in NYC. “But never say never”.
00:34:27	He took the job in Westchester County. He moved out on a four-day drive.  (1998)
00:35:36	Neal found a roommate on the internet (before google!). He searched the internet for the place in NYC where Canadians live. The Upper East Side came up!  
00:36:50	When he was offered the job, he thought he had hit the jack pot salary wise.  He drove over the GW Bridge to the Upper East Side, and met his roommate. The apartment was on east 83rd street.  It was a rail road apartment and a walk-up. He realized he would not have a place to park his car. When he learned that parking would cost more than $600 a month, (had no idea it was so far to Westchester) and his rent was $1500, and he still had to pay for gas and utilities, he realized he had no money for food.  He would have to make some changes. (1998)
00:40:00	Neal described how arriving in the city in 1998 was the beginning of the sanitizing of the City, the decay was past its bottoming out. The new-found safety, cleanliness, and gentrification was very fresh to people who had lived here. They felt like it could go back to the old way any minute. He did not experience what NYC was like before. 
00:41:53	Neal then got very involved in his planning work – taking on committee work and doing city projects. He got rid of his car and started working at a new firm for more money. 
00:42:35	Neal moved to Williamsburg in 2000. He moved into a very small studio in east Williamsburg. The rent was $400 month. It was a 2nd-floor, wood-frame, walk- up. The rent allowed him to save money, a good stepping stone for Jackson Heights.  
00:43:38	While living in Brooklyn and working in the new firm in Manhattan, he asked to get involved in projects to better learn about regions and neighborhoods in NYC. When doing work on these projects, he learned about the economic impact of development on neighborhoods, city infrastructure and transportation systems.
00:47:10	Neal talked about how being a planner is being an overqualified generalist. There is always someone else who is an expert in a particular subject. A planner’s role is to facilitate between the public interest, the developers, and politics. It’s about competition, money, people, power.  This is what makes the City go around.  Now anytime he reads the paper about Queens communities, he feels intrinsically involved because that is what he does.
00:48:51	Neal came out late to his family and friends, only after moving to NYC. It was less difficult to do after already living here. 1999 was a pivotal point in his life.  In coming out, he opened the doors to dating and meeting people. He was married, is now divorced, but a lot of why he came to Queens and lives there is because of his marriage. He and his husband are still part of each other’s lives.  
00:50:54	Neal described the decision to move to Jackson Heights. After living together in Brooklyn and saving money, Neal and his spouse wanted to buy a home. They looked around Brooklyn. This was in 2006 – almost at the top of the housing boom, before the big crash. A lot of gay couples (male) and families were moving out to Jackson Heights between 2004 and 2007. It was always a gay neighborhood and very multi-cultural. They had a lot of friends already living in Jackson Heights and they were encouraging them to look at the co-ops and brownstones. The neighborhood was stable and multi-ethnic, accessible to Neal’s work on Long Island and his spouse’s job in Manhattan. They went to a couple of open houses and their attention shifted from Brooklyn to Jackson Heights. The neighborhood was family friendly, had potential for community development, good transportation, and great restaurants.
00:54:51 	They eventually bought a co-op at the Windsor. It needed TLC and became Neal’s long-term project to fix it up. He also started looking around for projects to get involved in here to contribute to the neighborhood.	
00:56:22	A city planning colleague was co-chairing the Queens Pride Committee and asked Neal to help, knowing he could not say no to help the LGBT community – he is “paying it forward” doing things for our community.  
00:57:34	Neal talked about his respect for those older than himself, who had less freedom and privilege about being gay – although he also fought hard. He hopes the next generation appreciates what they have – an easier time being who they are. But he said that you cannot be complacent. We all have a responsibility to be vigilant and not silent when things are under attack or being taken away from us. You can see that happening now in this country and all over the world.
00:59:24	Neal was asked to chair the Queens Pride Parade in 2012.  It was a good way to have a voice and contribute to Jackson Heights and the LGBT community. It was a way to be political without being political in terms of party politics.  He didn’t know many people in this group as he had recently moved here.  He did a lot of community outreach to local bars that put together fabulous floats.
1:02:01	Neal talked about how the Queens parade differs from the Manhattan parade. The Queens parade is a little bit less racy than Manhattan and more family friendly - celebrating safety and diversity. There are community-based groups and it is shorter than Manhattan.  
1:04:15 	2013 was the 20th anniversary of Queens Pride and with the help of his spouse, who was connected to the theater, their celebrity grand marshal was the cast and crew from Wicked who were either raised or living in Queens. 
1:05:59	The focus that year was to fight bullying - not just gay kids but all kids. 
1:07:10	They decided to do this by promoting the gay straight alliances in the local public and charter schools. They approached a number Queens high school alliances and invited them to give ideas about how best they could contribute to the parade and festival. The Pride Committee received great feedback from the schools. The students were responsible for the float the morning of the parade and the Wicked crew promoted the anti-bullying and the gay/straight alliances. 
1:11:55	Neal talked about Council Member Drumm. It was heartwarming how Drumm has continued to support and advance Queens Pride and the students that had participated in the Parade.  They had made arrangements with the Wicked crew for the students to come to Manhattan to the theatre and participate in a meet and greet and back stage walk. Council Member Drumm participated in that.  He met the parents, students, and cast members. This was Neal’s crowning achievement of his investment in the Pride Committee.
1:13:54	Story of float getting stuck in a tree!
1:15:31	Neal talked about how when you have finished with a job like that, younger people with energy move in to take your place. You do not do the work to receive thanks but because you want to do something for your community. You want to build something that has inherent goodness and leave it better than you found it. Pride’s 25th anniversary will be a memorable year.
1:16:52	Neal then talked about the Queens Pride Lions Club, chartered in 2011.  Joining the club was a way to get more involved in the Jackson Heights gay community.  He did not get active until 2015. He did not have the time to commit before then.
1:18:24	He started getting active about two years ago (2015) in the Lions Club. He started attending all meetings and took on more responsibility.  It is the first LGBTQ Lions organizations in the US and Canada. He talked about the importance of being out and visible within such a prominent organization, being a community presence, providing club services for the straight and gay community. “We are one of you, just as important as fellow Lions Club that are not so gay.”  
1:20:28	The Club was formed as gay club, but is open to friends of gays as well.  Activities include– eye care and eye health for people of all ages, youth programs, recycling electronics, paper shredding, and a clothing drive for disadvantaged and homeless youth, primarily LGBTQ. There are so many other projects throughout Queens and NYC. The Club raises its visibility, saying LGBT people are here and part of your world too.  He will be Vice President of the Club this year.
1:23:34	In his final statement, Neal talked about his hope for the future. He talked about the community continuing to enrich itself with all sorts of different ethnic activities.  He also talked about the importance of Jackson Heights continuing to stand against the discriminatory actions happening across the country. He very eloquently talked about Jackson Heights being a “shining light” in this regard. He also talked about looking forward to remaining in the neighborhood.








						
