Queens Memory Project Oral History Interview Content Outline  City:    Queens Neighborhood (if any):  Recorded at 82-23 251st St, Bellerose, NY 11426 Date of Interview:   November 12, 2015  Time Period:   1961-2015 Interviewee Date of Birth: April 11, 1961 Name of interviewee:  Esther Tabaco-Costanzo Name of interviewer:  Claro de los Reyes, Jennifer Quiambao Length of interview:   1 hr., 06 min, 09 sec Name of editor:   Jennifer Quiambao Editing software:  Adobe Soundbooth Content Outline Preparer: Claro de los Reyes, Jennifer Quiambao   Summary:   Esther Tabaco-Costanzo is a real estate professional who lives in New Hyde Park, Queens, with her husband, Tony. She has four children, Anthony, Michael, Joey, and Rachel, and she was born and raised in Queens, NY. Her parents were immigrants to New York from Tagbilaran City, Bohol, Philippines in the late 1940s. Her father was an early employee of the United Nations when it was located at Lake Success, NY, and her parents initially settled in Parkway Village (Queens). Esther, her parents, and her siblings are featured in the book, Filipinos in New York City (2015) by Arcadia Publishing and the Filipino American National Historical Society (FANHS).  00:01:35 Born in Long Island Jewish Hospital in New Hyde Park (Queens) in 1961. When asked about her first memory of Queens, she recalls that she grew up on Langdale Street and that her family had a big backyard where her father loved to garden. In a third of their backyard, her father grew corn, tomatoes, and fruit trees. She remembers rows upon rows of vegetables that, at the time, were always bigger than she was. She remembers harvest time in October when everyone would get together and help. Her elementary school was nine blocks away. Up to third grade, she took a bus, and, after third grade, she walked with her siblings.   00:04:58 She remembers being very shy during elementary school and hiding underneath her mother’s skirts. She spent her kindergarten year in the Philippines and attended P.S.115 and Junior High 172. She liked school. In Queens, she recalls growing up not knowing any Filipinos in her neighborhood, remarking, “There were the white people, the black people, and then there were the Tabacos.” She does not recall growing up with any Spanish people around and no Indian people at all; there was one Chinese girl in her sixth grade class. She remarks on racial tensions during the 1970s during which time she felt that her brothers and sisters were more affected than she was.  00:07:52 Memories of her kindergarten year (or first grade) in the Philippines, especially memories of coloring the Filipino flag. She experienced the challenges of communication because she did not read, speak, or understand Visayan. No one spoke English to her, and she recalls that she couldn’t tell if her relatives there were laughing with her or laughing at her. In Queens, she never grew up with extended family, and in the Philippines she remembers being surrounded by many cousins, aunts, and uncles. When she was 12 years old, she had a crush on someone who turned out to be her cousin, and she was so embarrassed. She remembers that every barrio would have a dance so that the young people could meet and date outside their respective towns. She also remembers getting her immunization shots before going to the Philippines.   00:15:34 The last time she went to the Philippines, she was 12 years old and the next time was when she was 18. Memories of going to the Bohol Reunion, a ball at the Waldorf-Astoria in Manhattan. She was 16 or 17 years old at the time, and she would wear a gown and dance many waltzes. She remembers meeting the Castillo’s, another Filipino family living in the Bronx with roots in Bohol. The Castillo sons were named Hercules, Apollo, John Mars, and Jupiter. She recalls meeting other Filipino families in the Bronx and Jamaica, Queens. During the 80s, she has memories of dancing to the disco music of Donna Summers.   00:20:35 Memories of returning to Abuhan in Bohol when she was 18 years old and just out of high school. She went to college but then left to go to work. When she went to Philippines, she wanted to stay. Her father disapproved, and she received a telegram from him, which said, “Don’t make me come get you.” And then she went back home. Her father insisted that she come back to NY because there would be no work for her in Bohol. Then, she went back to school and returned to the Philippines one more time when her grandmother died. Shortly after, she got married and had children. She keeps in touch with relatives in the Philippines through Facebook and FaceTime.  00:23:56 Memories of growing up in Queens and of a typical day in Tabaco household. She recalls that just as women’s lib was happening, her mom was encouraging her daughters to prepare to take care of their future husbands. In preparation, she and her sisters would often do their brothers’ laundry. In 7th grade, she remembers jumping up when her friend’s brother asked for a glass of water. The girls cooked, cleaned, and served.  00:32:03 Memories of her dancing school, Ms. Helen’s, on 260th street and Union Turnpike. She started in 3rd grade with ballet. She recalls that all her friends lived in apartments, while she grew up in a house. Memories of playing “Ringolevio,” a children’s tag game. She recalls playing with teams anywhere on the block. Memories of her curfew because her parents were very strict.  00:36:19 She now lives in the house where she and her family grew up in New Hyde Park (Queens). She recalls that her father was so creative and remembers all of the renovations her father made to the house. Memories of him building bunk beds and the gazebo with a ceiling fan in the garden. In their backyard, they had a pool, which her family called “The Pond.” Her father made a boat that looked like a yacht to sail on “The Pond,” and she shares memories of ice-skating in their backyard. Memories of the cherry tree in her backyard.  00:46:50 Other memories of growing up in Queens. She recalls they were the only Filipinos in the neighborhood when she was little. When they grew older, her sisters married non-Filipinos, but some of her brothers married Filipinos. Loves the tightness of her family and remembers coming to visit her mother in New Hyde Park (Queens). She fondly remarks, “We’re so tight that you don’t have to talk.” And she wants to have her kids have that the closeness too. Memories of taking care of older parents and mentions the current renovations to her house in New Hyde Park (Queens) and also her experiences as a real estate professional.  01:02:13 She recalls that her mother would tell her daughter that there were “wak-waks” (vampire, bird-like creatures in Philippine mythology) in the laundry room, and this scared her daughter growing up. Recalls that her son came to her in ninth grade to tell her that there someone sitting in a tree in their backyard. This memory of her son causes her to recall one of her own oldest memories at 5 years old in the Philippines. When she was a child, she used to hang around the seminary, and on her way home, she sees a man in a white suit and hat sitting in a tree. She could not see his face, but there was space between his pants and shoes. She and her siblings start to run away. She turns around, and she sees him standing right beside her. She remembers learning that the “engkantos” (nature spirits that appear in human form) live in the trees and are known to take babies from pregnant mothers. She remembers going camping with her family and sleeping in the car when she was pregnant. Her mom had a lot of superstitions growing up. Memories her father as the disciplinarian. She remembers her mother would give her siblings a look that expressed her displeasure.  