Queens Memory Project
Oral History Interview Timecode Outline
City: Bellerose, Queens NY
Neighborhood (if any): Newark Park
Interviewer: Claro De Los Reyes, Jennifer Quiambao
Interviewee: Alex Tabaco
Interview Date: November 12, 2015
Interviewee’s Date of Birth:
Length of Interview:  56 min and 11 sec
Editing Software: Adobe Sound booth
Timecode Outline Preparer: Toby Ahn
Summary: 	Alex Tabaco is lifelong resident of Bellerose, Queens. In this interview, Alex spoke about his experience living in Bellerose as the only Filipino kid excluding his family. His parents wanted them to learn how to become adults by following their Filipino traditions and cultures. Alex discusses about how Bellerose, Queens is a place where family can cherish their memories and create a bond with other significant people. 

00:01:08	Alex was born in Queens and his parents lived in Glendale Street in Newark Park. Alex was also the first born of that house in Glendale Street. His parents also lived in an apartment in Parkway Village, Flushing and his 3 older brothers and sisters were born in that location. 
00:01:38	Alex and his siblings grew up together and went to the same school together at the Newark Park area. 
00:01:46	Alex’s first memory of Queens is when they were growing up in Queens; his family believed that they were the only Filipino family. Growing up as a kid, that didn’t matter to him because he had friends from the block and school, however, he felt like an outcast because he and his family felt different from everybody. His father used to tell him that if he heard rumors or insults like that, he should brush it off.
00:02:30	Alex’s strongest memory in Queens is growing up with a big family. His family consist of his father and mother with 10 siblings; which there is 4 boys including Alex and 6 girls. Alex’s deepest memories are spending times with his brothers and sisters. 
00:03:50	Alex was the 4th oldest out of all the siblings. He remembers playing board games, and back then when he was a child, school was his main priority. His mother couldn’t finish her education because of the war.
00:05:13	as a kid, playing in the street in their block was normal. They played games like stickball in the street. 
00:05:41	A normal day for Alex was going to school, coming back from school, eat dinner, and finish your homework/study, and go to sleep. However, during summer vacation, Alex and his siblings were allowed to stay out longer since there was no school. Around that time, his father spent more time with the kids by like teaching them certain hobbies like gardening, singing and playing the instruments.
00:06:45	Alex, later then, realized that the reason why his father was giving them hard labor to do is because his father wanted to teach them that how to take care of things and how to grow up. 
00:06:53	Alex’s father played the ukulele and Alex and his siblings used to make fun of him. He taught his kids how to play the ukulele and taught some of his songs to them. After his father tried to teach Alex, music became a huge passion for him. 
00:07:41	His father bought their siblings different types of instruments when they were about 10 years old. His older brother, Ron, got the guitar and Alex got a bugle. Alex wanted a guitar so he decided to take his brother’s guitar and play with it without his permission. 
00:09:04	Alex’s favorite music came from the 60s or 70s; he like music bands like the Beatles, the Eagles, Rolling Stars, and etc.… Alex tries to learn how to play songs from his favorite groups.
00:11:57	Alex’s father didn’t like listening to the songs like the Beatles or other rock bands because he said that it was too wild. Alex likes to listen to ballad/love songs; he was never into hard rock songs back in the 60s. 
00:12:57	back then, there used to be concerts in Queens but even though Alex wanted to go to them, his family couldn’t afford it back then.
00:15:11	at the age 8-16, the Park that they used to go to often was Alley Pond Park. Alex started to play sports like softball and football. He went to PS.172 for elementary school and around his high school time, he played basketball. 
00:16:32	When Alex got into high school and college, he started to play more of hockey and football. He enjoyed hockey very much. He remembers a time when his parents came to watch a game, he used to get hit a lot and his parents didn’t want him to play hockey because his parents thought that he was going to die.
00:18:25	Alex’s family just came off of the Vietnam War in 1969. One of his brothers, Joel, was stationed in Vietnam. The Vietnam War was a hard time for not only the family, but for America because no one can explain what happen in the Vietnam War except for those who survived. They said women and children die due to the aftermath of the War.
00:19:18	His brother didn’t want to explain his experience in the Vietnam War until many years later when he wanted to open up and share his experience about it. 
00:21:00	His family was very fortunate going to the Philippines back then. His father was recruited by UN in 1947 and one of the benefits, his father got was that he could bring back his family every two years. 
00:21:19	the first time Alex went back to Philippines is 1956 when he was one years old and he continued to go back until 1972 when he started to work over the summer times.
00:21:43	Alex’s memories of going to Philippines were amazing to him because he had a wonderful time with his family even though there were no electricity. He was able to go back to the Philippines 10 times. He was also able to meet some of his relatives like his cousins, uncle, aunt, grandmother, and grandfather.
00:28:09	Alex went to Van Buren High School which was really close from their home. He later, went to Queens College. His school life always consist him living in the Queens area. To Alex, Queens was really important to him because he grew up in Queens. In Queens College, he majored in Accounting; he was in the Accounting Profession for about 35 years. He found Queens very enjoyable and worked during his college years. He got married in Queens. Now, he lives in Franklin Square, he also 60 years old, lives with his wife, and his two children. 
00:30:45	Alex played softball in Alley Pond Park and Kissena Park. Later on when he was in College, he was involved in ice hockey. His friends in the ice hockey team started playing hockey since they were 10 years old and Alex started playing when he was 20 years old. Alex remembers almost being killed in his first game. Alex found that hockey is a really challenging sport; however, it gave him many connections among his friends and colleagues.  
00:33:00 	Alex never had a Filipino friend until his 3rd year of college. He joined the varsity volleyball team and he made the tryout with 9 more people including his Filipino friend, named Willy. Both Alex and Willy had similar goals of being Filipino. Willy was like part of his Alex’s family because whatever the family did, Willy loved to tag along with him. Willy is born from the Philippines, grew up in Stony when he was in high school. They played tennis together. When Willy got to know Alex’s family, he brought Alex to his home, and his Willy’s parents treated him like another son.
00:38:11	Alex’s father was strict; however, he was strict for the benefit for his family. He was a fair and caring man who looked out for his family. He taught his children for the benefit of using these skills in the future. 
00:38:40	Alex’s father learned all of his skills in his hometown in Bohol. He built so many things for the family like the living room and showed the kids how to use tools. Alex wouldn’t be able to do what he could do if it wasn’t for his father. Alex appreciates on what his father did for the family and for him. He had no friends during his free time; he only focused on his children. Alex believes that his father wanted to go back to Bohol because it was hard for him to communicate with other people in America. His parents went through so much for the family and he appreciates them so much for making the person he is today.
00:51:30	the most important trait in a family is the times and memories when the parents are with their children.
00:54:15	To Alex, going to Queens College at that time played a major role at that time because he spent most of his time outside of campus. Alex attended to Queens College in 1975-1979. Alex had a wonderful time playing in the parks in Queens especially Alley Pond Park and Kissena Park at that time. 
