Queens Memory Project
Oral History Interview Timecode Outline 
City: Bellerose, Queens NY
Neighborhood (if any): 
Interviewer: Claro de los Reyes and Jennifer Quiambao
Interviewee: Carlos Tabaco
Interviewee’s Date of birth: June 19, 1957
Length of Interview: 57min 47sec
Editing Software: Adobe Sound Booth
Timecode Outline Preparer: Toby Ahn
Summary: 	Carlos Tabaco is lifelong resident of Bellerose, Queens. In this interview, Carlos discussed about how his family had to become an American family and a Filipino family at the same time. He even discussed about the times when his family went to Philippines a couple of times before to visit their family over there. Carlos wanted to discuss about the difficult time that they faced in Bellerose, Queens about being Filipino and how other people distinguish them to other races.
00:01:05	Carlos Tabaco was born in Queens Long Island George Hospital in June 19, 1957 and he is the 5th born child in his family out of 10 children. 
00:01:40	Carlo’s first memory of Queens is when he got the chicken pox and he remembers that there was a gas station called St. Clair and his father bought Carlos a dinosaur there. After growing up with his siblings, he felt like he was part of one big party. His parent was born in the Philippines. In his family, the girls had a stricter time than the boys because of their traditions as a Filipino.
00:03:17	Carlo’s family couldn’t bring their Philippine’s tradition and culture with them when they left for New York because they didn’t want to stand out in front of the American kids back then. They had to distinguish of being a Filipino family in the household and being an American family in the outside.
00:04:06	In Carlo’s household, there was a line of respect; when the oldest one says to the 2nd oldest to do something, the 2nd oldest would tell the 3rd oldest to do it and it will go on like a pattern. Outside of the house, however, they treated each other as equal because they don’t want to be an outsider and try to be embarrassed by listening to the oldest and doing what he/she was telling them to do. 
00:05:45	When the family went to the Philippines, Carlos was in 4th grade and went to school called Divine Work College in the Island of Bahal. Carlos had some easy and hard times when he went to Philippines because he didn’t understand the culture and they didn’t interact with each other as much as they did. Carlos and one of his siblings, Angie, interacted with each other with the most when they were in Queens because they were just one year apart from each other. 
00:08:31	when the family was in New York, there were a lot of kids in the block and they did a lot of stuff together. Although Carlos loves the Philippines a lot, he still loves New York more because it consists of more memorable times for Carlos. 
00:10:06	Carlos just played with his friends most of the time when he went because his brothers had their own social like Alex was into playing sports. Carlos was more like a street person than a sports person. There was a bowling alley called Stolley Bowling Alley and it was a place for him and his place used to meet up. The place was also like a base for them because there were other groups like them that tried to take the place as their base as well. There were also other places from them to hang out in. They tried to protect those places from other gangs in their areas.
00:14:14	Carlos and his friends used to walk everywhere and there used to be this amusement park in Flushing where they used to go to hitch some rides. When they were 11 or 12 years old, they used to take those buses to travel around like in New Jersey and New York. 
00:17:02	a typical day in the Tabaco’s household was waking up, using the bathroom as fast as you can so that the other siblings could use it too, eating breakfast, go to work/ school, eat dinner, and went to sleep.  When Carlos was 9 year old, he used to work with his brother, Joey, in the World Fair and get paid $5 per day since back then, everything was so cheap. Their job was to clean up the area and the benefits that they got was a free pass to go anywhere in the World Fair. 
00:20:30	When Carlos and Joey got paid from their jobs, they used to contribute to the house. 
00:22:59	Carlos and Joey wanted to worked because they just felt like wanting to do it and they thought that it was pretty cool back then. To Carlos, working is just a normal thing to do including helping other people with chores as well. 
00:24:36	back then, Carlos and his siblings didn’t get along with each other until much later when they got older. When they were kids, it almost felt like survival of the fittest; they didn’t really spent a lot of play time together. When they were 16 or 17 years old, that is when they started to get along with each other and did almost everything together. They camped, skied, and fished together. 
00:27:31	Carlos went to Martin Van Burren High School, for pre-school, he went to P.S. 115, for middle school, he went to I.S 172. In Junior High School, Carlos admits that he did a lot of drugs. He graduated Junior High School in 1975. Carlos and his friends, during 1972 to 1975, wanted to experience what being adulthood would be like. Carlos started smoking during 9 years old, and he started buying cigarettes when he was 11 or 12 years old, but during 9th grade, his best friend tried to convince him to stop doing drugs, and Carlos managed to stop doing them in 10th grade. He barely made it out of high school, since he wasn’t a really good student back then. 
00:30:30	back then, when Carlos and his friends used to drive, he and his friends usually meet up in Cunningham Park, Alley Pond Park, and in an empty street where they usually race in. Carlos’ first car was a Toyota Cyclic Jeep T and they managed to put a lot of people in the car. 
00:32:10	Carlos used to work at a place called Masters, which now became Models. He used to use the money he earned for gas. After high school, Carlos took 2 years off; he went to Mississippi with his brother, Joey. After the trip, he came back and went to college and he got an Associate’s Degree in Environmental Health. 
00:34:00	Carlos used to work for a company called Parliaments for 17 years, and he started off as a stock boy, but after a few months, he became store manager for 9 years. After he stopped working there, he started to work at Lowe, and then worked at Security in JFK. Now, Carlos does pre-advocate work with the mentally disabled. 
00:35:10	Carlos got married in when he was 30 and he has daughter, who is 25 years old, Stephanie. She is also getting married in 2 years in Long Island. 
00:41:05	Their Filipino traditions were determined by their parents because they were the only Filipino families back then. Carlos back then was a little wilder than his other siblings. Carlos didn’t learn how to do laundry until he was 44 years old and he doesn’t know how to cook since his sisters had always made the food for him. Carlos, however, did other chores for the family instead like mow the lawn with his father, do gardening with his father. 
00:45:00	Carlos’ friends from the past: Kevin, his Irish/Italian friend, Howey, his Jewish friend, and Mitchmizoki, his Polish friend. They used to do everything together like go to bar, flirt with other girls, and etc.…  
00:48:35	Carlos’ grandmother was always there for him, and protect him because in the Philippines, it was difficult for Carlos to understand the culture and bond with other Filipinos there. 
00:52:10	Carlos’ favorite memory was his marriage with his wife. He met his wife while working for Parliament; she was the department manager. They used to eat lunch together, started to hang out with each other, started to date in 1985. They got married in 1988, and had a daughter in 1990. He had to work for a lot of hours and his time management destroyed his marriage, but later on, he overcame that depression by just going on with his life with his friends and family. 
