Queens Memory 
Oral History Interview Timecode Outline

City:				Woodside, Maspeth
Date of Interview: 		August 24, 2015
Time Period:			1938-2015
Interviewee Date of Birth:	ca. 1938
Name of interviewee:		Mary Twomey
Name of interviewer:		Eileen Sprague
Length of interview: 		1 hr., 42 sec.
Name of editor:		
Editing software:		
Timecode Outline Preparer:	Lori Wallach
	
Summary:	Mary Twomey was born in the farmland of County Kilkenny at a time of great poverty; she was one of nine children, and when she was 6, her mother died. At the age of 11, she traveled alone to New York to begin a new life with an aunt and uncle she had never met. In this interview, she tells the story of her very different life in the U.S. – living in Woodside, traveling into Manhattan for school and dancing lessons, and eventually marrying and raising a family of her own in the same Queens neighborhood. Mary treasures her close relationships with her siblings, most of whom eventually joined her in the U.S., and is gratified to see much improved circumstances for her family who remained in Ireland during her numerous visits there over the years. 

00:00:17	Mary came to the United States from Ireland in January 1950, by airplane. She remembers having all new clothes for the trip and traveling alone; she got sick at a stopover in Newfoundland but continued on to New York and was met by two aunts and an uncle. She was 11 years old. 

00:02:45  	She was one of nine children, and her mother died when the oldest was 12 and the youngest was 2; Mary was 6. She lived with other family members in Ireland for several years. An aunt in the U.S. wanted to bring one child over but not a boy because of the mandatory military draft, so Mary was picked as the one to come to America. She doesn’t recall feeling afraid, and said she was never lonely here.
	
00:06:30	Her first impression of New York was of all the cars and lights; she had only ridden in a car once or twice in Ireland. There were traffic jams even back then! Her aunt and uncle lived in Woodside; her aunt came to the U.S. in the 1920s and her uncle served in the U.S. Army in World War I. Her aunt used to say that her uncle had shell shock and didn’t like loud noises. Her uncle didn’t go back to Ireland to visit until 1963, though her aunt may have visited when she single. The family was doing much better financially at that point.

00:11:58	Mary’s family is from County Kilkenny; it was all farm country back then. People would farm almost everything – potatoes, corn, wheat, turkeys, chickens. Now it is only large milk farms. 

00:13:17	When Mary came here, she most missed her cousin who was two years older than she; they are still close. Her cousin entered the convent shortly after Mary emigrated. Mary attended National schools in Ireland as a child.

00:15:40	School in America was different than in Ireland. She was put into fourth grade (4B) when she should have been in sixth grade, but a nun worked with her to catch up. She doesn’t remember ever being bullied or teased in school. She attended St. Mary’s Winfield in Woodside.

00:18:30	The landlord didn’t want children in the house, so her aunt and uncle bought a house in Maspeth. Her aunt worked outside the home.

00:20:30	Mary went to high school at St. Michael’s in Manhattan starting at age 14. She took the bus and subway by herself to get there. Her teachers were Irish Presentation Sisters, a semi-cloistered order. Her aunt wanted her to go to college, but she decided to go to Wood secretarial school near Grand Central Station. She attended Wood for a year, during which she met her future husband. Afterwards she got a job as a secretary with Parade magazine for about a year and then went back to Ireland for a five-month visit.

00:24:08 	Mary had a great time visiting with her siblings back home but came back to New York to get married. Her husband was born in the U.S. but spent part of his childhood in Ireland, during World War II. Her mother-in-law had a shop in Dublin but the children lived with family in the country to avoid the bombings. Her in-laws were from the Cork and Limerick area.

00:27:39	Mary had three children within three years after getting married. She did not return to Ireland again until her 40th birthday. 
[END OF FIRST RECORDING SESSION]
[BEGIN SECOND RECORDING SESSION]

00:00:00	When Mary’s father was in declining health, she and her siblings agreed to each spend a few weeks with him; she was married 20 years by then and had five children. She has also been back to Ireland several times on tours, and to see her granddaughter participate in Irish music and dance competitions. 

00:01:36	All but one of Mary’s siblings eventually emigrated to the U.S. and settled in the Woodside and Maspeth area. Her older sister came in 1955 and helped bring the younger siblings over. Her brother Patrick went back to live in Ireland for a while in the mid-1970s, but eventually returned to the U.S.

00:04:35	Mary has five children; three live in the New York area, one is in Florida and one in Colorado. She stayed home to raise her children for 20 years, then started working as a secretary at St. John’s University when her daughter entered college. She got free tuition for four of her children there. It was difficult at first to work while still taking care of her children; she often slept in the campus chapel during lunchtime.

00:08:00	Of Mary’s four children who attended St. John’s, two became accountants, one is a special ed teacher, and one went into human resources. 

00:10:00	Since her children have grown up, Mary has had time to enjoy Irish set dancing. She dances in Long Island City, Yonkers, Mineola and Plainview. She also belongs to a book club. Her oldest son bought her a condo in Florida and she spends three months a year there in winter; several of her siblings have condos in the same complex.

00:12:48	When Mary’s children were young, she taught them Irish rebel songs. The night before her son Eamon was born, in 1972, was Bloody Sunday. One of her sisters was very involved in the Irish civil rights movement, and Mary became involved as well. She participated in fund-raising and protests and included her children too. Her family sponsored several children from Northern Ireland.
 
00:16:37	Not all of her siblings were politically involved, but Mary came from a pro-IRA family. Her father and uncles were involved in the events of the 1920s, and her father-in-law was imprisoned for a time in Ireland. He had a brother who was killed by the Black and Tans. A lot of men of that generation came to the U.S. because of the strife. She and her family supported the Holy Ghost Fathers through their dances, especially in Long Island City.
 
00:19:54	Mary has a number of grandchildren, and she hopes they will learn more about their Irish heritage and how important the Catholic faith was to her family. She was poor as a child and grew up very differently than her own children did, and now her grandchildren are growing up in even greater affluence. As a child in Ireland, living with her aunt and uncle, she was often alone but used to play shop with herself. Her uncle gave her a bike, and she learned how to ride by going down a slope in the field. She says her siblings had a tougher time growing up;  her father was a disciplinarian and gave them a lot of responsibilities after their mother died. They were very poor and were given a hard time at school. 

00:26:30	Her siblings were happy to come to the U.S. Most of them had four or five children, and there are a total of 35 grandchildren among them. 
[END OF SECOND RECORDING SESSION]
[BEGIN THIRD RECORDING SESSION]

00:00:30	Mary had a wonderful aunt here in the U.S. who became like a mother to her and her siblings. She always hosted Christmas and Thanksgiving dinners. During her childhood in Queens, Mary went into Manhattan to take Irish dancing lessons.

00:02:16	Her husband did not enjoy dancing – he had two left feet – but all their children learned Irish dancing to different extents. 









Queens Library, Metadata Services, Attn: Natalie Milbrodt, 89-11 Merrick Blvd. Jamaica, NY 11432

For More Information, Contact: Director, Natalie Milbrodt (Natalie.Milbrodt@queenslibrary.org)




