Queens Memory
Oral History Interview Timecode Outline
 
City: 	                    	        	Sunnyside and Astoria
Neighborhood (if any):        	
Date of Interview:    	        	July 19, 2018
Time Period:            	        	1970s-2018
Interviewee Date of Birth:   	
Name of interviewee:          	Jimmy Van Bramer
Name of interviewer:           	Alice Ostrowsky
Length of interview:            	43min, 56 sec
Name of editor:                   	

Editing software:                  	Name of software, ex: “Audacity” or “Adobe Soundbooth”
Timecode Outline Preparer: 	Alice Ostrowsky
        	
Summary:    	Jimmy Van Bramer is currently the NYC Council Deputy Leader for the 26th District of Queens.  He is a lifelong Queens resident.  In this interview he discusses his personal and professional involvement in the history of activism in the LGBTQ communities in Queens.  He discusses how and when he came out to his family and community and his desire to represent the LGBTQ community as an elected representive in his own Queens, working class community.
 
00:00  introduction

01:05	Discusses being connected to the Queens LGBTQ community in “every way” – grew up there, came out there, and continues to reside in Queens as an openly gay man.  Proud to be a part of the community.

02:28	made history as one of the first openly gay elected officials.  A merging of his personal and electoral history.  Mentions Councilmember Drum as another openly gay elected official

02:35	came out in 1989 in a gay youth group in the AIDS Center of Queens County located in Rego Park on Queens Boulevard off 63rd Drive [no longer there]

03:12* 	Discusses the importance of the presence of the youth group in his life.  

04:16  	what it was like to “come out” in Queens at that time.  Lived in Astoria growing up

04:24	Describes his family as traditional, white/ethnic, working class, Catholic. Not religious but very working class…”some would say poor working class”.

05:00	Identifies the geographic setting of his Astoria neighborhood

05:28	Describes growing up in the 1970’s at the age of 6 or 7 and being aware that another older boy was seen as different, in a negative way, by community/neighbors.  He later understood that this was because the boy was gay.

07:15	Describes family.  Use of homophobic language by his step father and brother.

07:33 	Never saw a positive representation of an LGBTQ person at that time.  Those who were openly gay or transgender were mocked.  Took close to ten years before he would come out in his community. 

10:00	AIDS Center of Queens County opened in response to the AIDS crisis.  Probably mid-80’s

10:36	Attended school in Astoria.  PS 70, JHS 10, and Bryant HS.  Religious education at St. Joseph’s Church.  No experience of anti gay issues in elementary school.  Developed first crush in JHS and became aware of being different.

12:45	In JHS first heard homophobic comments directed at him.

13:35	Describes HS and growing awareness of his own identity.  Time of depression. Continued to conceal this from family.  Revealing it was “too big a risk”.

15:15*	Discusses the experience of coming out as like being “born again” - becoming one’s true, authentic self.  The joy of having a community he belonged to and having a desire to change the world.  “My whole world changed”... opened a world of possibilities.

17:25  Discussion of how coming out influenced his moving towards a career in public service.  “I was always political”.  

18:18	Father was a union organizer for Local 2 of the Printers and Pressman’s Union. From an early age I knew I was a democrat...pro-union...and working class.  Loved history and social studies...always drawn to politics

19:15	Describes learning about JFK in school.  [refers to the photo of JFK hanging in the room where the interview was conducted].  Identified with him as an Irish Catholic and expressed his hope to be the second Irish Catholic President.

19:45	before coming out,  believed that an openly gay person could never become an elected official

20:55*  after coming out, decided that if he was going to live as an openly gay person he would also be an activist.  Not be afraid...not be quiet….try to change the world to make it better.

21:34*	Described watching a documentary about Harvey Milk, during his second meeting at the AIDS Center of Queens County.  Powerful turning point for a “19 year old gay kid”.

22:21*	Began volunteering for a gay man’s campaign for city councilman on the West Side of Manhattan.  Started becoming an activist.  “I was lit”...in the summer of 1989.  Could not do enough…

24:00	Discussion of the murder of Julio Rivera

24:12	Became a volunteer for the NYC Gay and Lesbian Anti-Violence Project.  Mat Forman was the director and was a seminal figure in the Julio Rivera case. 

25:00  Fell in love for the first time in June of 1990.

26:22*	Describes the difference between the Astoria of his youth and Astoria now.  Was not possible for LGBTQ people to be out and visible when he was growing up.  Now sees lots of openly gay people and LGBTQ people not being afraid to be who they are.  Discussed public displays of affection being possible now, without fear of violence.  Neighborhoods more openly gay than they ever were.  Also filled with heterosexual people who embrace the community.

28:31	Discusses his belief that electing openly gay and LGBTQ people to public office would change hearts and minds

28:58	Volunteered with the campaigns for Dave Taylor in 1989. Tom Duane 1981.  

29:28	His neighborhood is now represented by an openly gay councilman.  Tremendous sea change.  Reflects on the young man he grew up with (Donny Dunn) who didn’t get to experience this.
30:30* Expresses anger and sadness about all the young men who died of AIDS and never got to see or benefit from  the changes that have occurred.  

31:38  Marched in every gay pride parade in Queens.  First in June of 1993.  Very special and powerful moment...to see the community marching in Queens, on 37th Avenue, as openly LGBTQ.  Doing it in Queens was the ultimate celebration of pride.

33:50* Discusses the importance, to him, of representing the Queens community as an openly LGBTQ official.  References other politicians who ran in Manhattan, including Tom Duane, who grew up in Queens.  People had to move to Manhattan to feel they could be who they wanted to be.  JVB wanted to represent the neighborhood he grew up in.  “...openly gay in our hometown…”  would be the “ultimate victory”.  The accomplishments would be incomplete until they occurred in Queens.

36:28	Discusses the present LGBTQ community in Queens.  Feels it is easier to be gay now...despite political setbacks.  Kids are coming out at a younger age...avoiding suffering.
Feels the climate is better.  Youth see openly gay elected officials...positive representations of gay people on TV.  Still have challenges, homophobia, bullying.

39:28	Describes visiting Bryant HS and seeing openly gay youth

39:58	Hopes for the future.  That no parent would reject their child upon learning that their child is different.  Believes more families just want their children to be happy and healthy and be who they are.

41:37	Suicide rates remain higher for LGBTQ youth.  Still work to be done

41:55	Wants more LGBTQ people elected to higher office.  Plans to run for Borough President.
Wants the Queens LGBTQ community to continue to be us….be open, holding hands...raising kids...in every neighborhood in Queens.

