Queens Memory Project Oral History Interview Timecode Outline  City:    Bayside Neighborhood (if any):   Date of Interview:   July 14, 2013  Time Period:   1935-1954 Interviewee Date of Birth: September 14, 1935 Name of interviewee:  Helen Van Dam DiBella Name of interviewer:  Lori A. Wallach Length of interview:   35 min, 59 sec Name of editor:  Lori A. Wallach Editing software:  Audacity Timecode Outline Preparer: Lori A. Wallach   Summary: Helen Van Dam DiBella grew up in Bayside as one of six siblings. She describes her childhood as “poor but happy,” with street games, radio shows and the movies for entertainment. World War II was most apparent to her in the neighborhood air raid drills, the ration stamps she took to the market to buy sugar, and the Victory Garden in which her father grew vegetables. Both of her brothers served in the Army during the war years, and she recalls the many soldiers stationed at Fort Totten who spent their off-duty hours strolling on nearby Bell Boulevard.      00:00:17 Helen Van Dam DiBella grew up in Bayside and was a child during World War II. She remembers hearing about the war on the radio but was too young to understand most of it. 00:00:55 Her older brothers, John and Henry, were both in the Army during the war. John served overseas, but Henry was stationed in Fort Hamilton, Brooklyn, because of his heart murmur. 00:01:40 John was a [U.S. Army Air Force] tailgunner and was wounded during combat. He served at one point in Hawaii and brought back many souvenirs, including a pearl ring that she still has. He wrote to his mother often. 00:03:18 [Referring to photo of John, in uniform.] John was a staff sergeant; he came back home at the end of the war. 00:04:03 [Referring to photo of Helen as a child.] Helen, at age 5, is standing in an empty lot across the street from her home. Later, it became a Victory Garden in which the local residents, including Helen’s father, grew vegetables. He was too old to serve in the war himself. 00:05:10 She remembers air raids during the war; her brother John was an air raid warden before he joined the Army. During air raids, people had to turn off all the lights in their houses unless they had blackout shades, which her family did. In school, there were drills in which the children hid under their desks. She says the drills were “scary,” but most people didn’t really think they would be bombed. 00:06:35 Helen’s oldest sister, Eleanor, worked in the library during the war years. She doesn’t recall a lot of women working at that time; most of the women in her neighborhood were older. A lot of the young men were in the service and she recalls only “old men” being around.  00:07:40 Because of Fort Totten, there were always many soldiers in Bayside, socializing on Bell Boulevard. Mostly they were from out of state, especially the South.  00:08:47 Helen remembers ration books with stamps for buying items such as sugar. Her mother sent her to Bohack’s for groceries with the stamps. Her older sisters had difficulty buying nylon stockings. 00:10:20 Her family, like many in the neighborhood, had a little banner in the window with two stars, representing her two brothers in the service. If a family member was killed in action, the banner would have a gold star. 00:11:22 She attended P.S. 31 until sixth grade, then P.S. 130 for seventh and eighth grades; she walked to both schools but 130 was further. Then she went to Bayside High School, which was an even longer walk. She did not visit Fort Totten until she was a teenager, when she went with a friend to visit someone. 00:13:00 In her neighborhood, there were big, four-family houses like the one she lived in, and “everybody was kind of poor.” There were a lot of Polish and Black families in her area, and drinking was common among the men. There were also a lot of feral cats. In the summer people would build a fire outside and roast potatoes. Everyone had porches and sat out at night. People listened to radio shows: The Lone Ranger, Inner Sanctum (a mystery show), The Green Hornet, and “Mrs. Goldberg” [The Goldbergs]. Very few people in the neighborhood had a telephone when Helen was a child.   00:15:41 She remembers going to the movies in Bayside on Saturday mornings; there would be cartoons, a weekly serial, two movies, and a newsreel. There were fans but no air conditioning. She recalls sometimes going with a friend and her mother, who would bring bologna and bread and make sandwiches in the theatre. They also bought candy, ice cream and soda there. She went with her friends starting around age 10. Her mother would give her a quarter to go if she had it; some weeks she wasn’t able to go. 00:17:42 When Helen was very young, her family was on welfare, and people sometimes brought them baskets of food. Many of her neighbors were also on welfare. Helen’s father was a house painter and kept a lot of paint in the basement. He loved to garden and grew flowers in the front and back yards; gladiolas were his favorite.  00:19:17 In their four-family house, two other tenants were always the same, but one apartment changed hands often. Everyone got along within the house and in the neighborhood; she doesn’t recall any fighting or tension between ethnic groups. The only crime she remembers was a man who roamed the neighborhood at night with no pants on and looked in people’s windows. One night her brothers chased the man but he was never caught. 00:21:37 Her family did not have a car and none of them drove. One tenant upstairs had a car; he sometimes took them for rides and let them sit in the rumble seat. There was a rag man who came around the neighborhood with a horse and carriage, and an ice man who sold blocks of ice for ice boxes. Her family didn’t get milk delivered; Helen remembers drinking tea and coffee, even as a child, with evaporated or condensed milk.  00:23:36 Children in the area played games in the street such as red light, green light; hide and seek; kick the can; and jumping rope, including double Dutch jumping. They also played stoop ball. 00:25:12 [Referring to photos.] In one picture, Helen is a teenager, sitting on a picnic table in Crocheron Park. Other photos are of her older sister Hazel. She worked at a bakery in Bayside [the Bell Blvd. Bake Shop] and earlier at the Ideal Toy factory [in Hollis?]. Hazel sometimes brought young Helen dolls from the factory. When she worked at the bakery she brought home leftover cake each night, which they had with their tea. Another photo shows Hazel shoveling snow across the street, in front of their landlords’ house.  00:28:03 Helen’s sister Hazel eventually married a soldier she met from Fort Totten (after World War II). Many girls from town dated the soldiers but she doesn’t remember anyone else marrying a soldier. Helen’s father worked for the WPA at one point, making roads.    00:29:39 The neighborhood where Helen grew up was essentially the same by the time she moved out in 1954. She lived near Northern Boulevard, so there was easy access to Flushing and Jamaica via bus. When she was a teenager, she went to both towns for the movies and shopping. They didn’t really go into Manhattan, and only went to Long Island when her brother-in-law Lou drove them out. 00:32:11 Helen remembers being happy as a child despite being poor; food was not plentiful but they didn’t go hungry. She thinks the family went to St. Robert [Bellarmine] Catholic church. On Sundays, she recalls listening to the music from a Black church across the street.  00:33:53 The house where she grew up was “old” when Helen was a child and she’s surprised to learn it is still standing. It had no heat; they had a kerosene stove in the living room and a coal stove in the kitchen. The coal was delivered and kept in a bin in the basement. There was also no hot water; it had to be heated for washing. Her mother used a washboard to do laundry.                   