Queens Memory Project
Oral History Interview Timecode Outline

City: 				Ozone Park/East Elmhurst
Neighborhood:	 	
Date of Interview:	 	May 29, 2018
Time Period: 			1946-2018
Interviewee Date of Birth: 	May 20, 1946
Name of Interviewee: 	Richard Wandel
Name of Interviewer: 		Fran Kipnis 
Length of interview: 		01 hour, 47 minutes and 02 seconds
Name of editor:
Editing Software:
Timecode Outline Preparer:	 Fran Kipnis

Summary: 	Rich was born in 1946 and lived in Ozone Park, Queens from 1947 until 1959, when the family moved to Deer Park, in Suffolk County.  His parents grew up in Ozone Park.  Rich joined the Seminary for his college years. After being kicked out of the seminary, Rich lived in Manhattan, Brooklyn, Pennsylvania, and Spanish Harlem. He moved to Astoria, Queens in 1982 and to East Elmhurst, Queens in 2001, where he lives today. Rich played a leading role the Gay Activist Alliance in the early 1970’s, the premier NYC gay organization at the time. As a volunteer, Rich founded and managed the archives at the LGBT Community Center in Manhattan from 1990 - 2017. For this paying career, Rich served for 17 years as the Associate Archivist for the New York Philharmonic.

00:00:07	This is a Queens Memory interview for Richard Wandel at 32-23 88th Street, East Elmhurst, New York on May 29, 2018 at 12:03 PM.

00:01:15	Rich’s parents were born in Brooklyn. They moved as young children to Queens. His father grew up in Ozone Park, 133rd Avenue between 96th and 97th Street. This was Rich’s childhood home. When his paternal grandparents retired to Florida, his family took over the house. 

00:01:42	Rich’s mother grew up in the Gate of Heaven Parish, the next Parish over from his father.  This is roughly 104th Street and 101st Avenue. 

00:02:02	His father and his mother’s brothers were involved in Boy Scouts Troop 173 out of Gate of Heaven Parish. That is how his parents met. They went to the same high school but met through the Boy Scouts.

00:02:43	During the war years, Rich’s parents lived in Racine, and Milwaukee, Wisconsin. They moved back to Queens after the war. Rich was born in Milwaukee but has no memory of it as a child. He moved to Queens when he was one-year-old. 

00:03:17	There are five siblings. The three oldest were born in Wisconsin and the two youngest were both in Queens.

00:03:31	The family lived at 96-11 133rd Avenue. Ozone Park at that time was mixture of Italian-descent families and an older strain of German-descent families. There were mostly single- family houses, some two- or three-family houses.  The houses had a stoop and the kids played stoop ball and box ball. The kids also played stick ball with the sewer covers as bases.

00:04:48	Ozone Park is very close to the Aqueduct Race Track. As kids, Rich and his siblings had to come in early during racing season. The people coming out of the track were crazy drivers, whether they won or lost a race. There was still a small farm in what is now part of the Aqueduct parking lot.

00:05:22	As a child, Rich and his siblings walked a long distance to a playground near John Adams High School (101-01 Rockaway Blvd, Ozone Park, NY 11417).  The walk took them past a house with geese, a farm, and junk yards. Rich remembers a horse-drawn wagon ride for kids, a horse-drawn junk man, trucks to sharpen knives, and milkmen delivering milk. (Was in Ozone Park by 1947-48.)

00:06:42	Rich went to Nativity Grammar School and was taught by the Ursiline Order of nuns. The school was located at 94th Street and 101st Avenue (approximate). That was a distance away.  Rich took a bus. In fourth or fifth grade he would walk. He would have gone to PS 63 if he had gone to public school. 

00:07:08	In 1959, Rich’s family moved to Deer Park in Suffolk County. Rich was 13 years old and in the eighth grade.

00:08:36	Rich then went to St. John’s High School in Brooklyn for one year. This high school is now in Queens. Then he went to St. Anthony’s High School in Smithtown. 

00:09:18	Rich is not sure why the family moved. There was a big push at that time (1959) to move to the suburbs. It was not about the schools, because the children were in Catholic schools, and it was not a crime issue. Rich’s mother’s best friend had lived in Hollis and moved to Deer Park first – that might have brought the issue up with his family.

00:10:16	Rich lived in Deer Park through high school years. He then went into the Seminary for college years with the Passionist Order. He moved to various houses within their province - Hartford CT, Pittsburg PA, Springfield MA, Jamaica Estates, Queens, and Union City, NJ. Rich then was kicked out of the Seminary. He came back to his parents’ house, then lived in Manhattan and did a longer stint in Brooklyn (Flatbush). He was not sure, at the time, why he was kicked out of Seminary. They never told him. However, friends who are still in the Order, said it was about being gay, but Rich did not know he was gay at the time.

00:11:58	Rich went from Manhattan to Brooklyn, then to Pennsylvania, then to Spanish Harlem, then to Astoria, and finally to East Elmhurst.

00:12:30	Rich said that when you looked for an apartment, you looked for what was available and what you could afford. At the time, people looked in Brooklyn or Queens, and depending on where you worked, (lower Manhattan vs. mid-town) one or the other made more sense. Rich came to Queens with a roommate (approximately 1982).

00:13:09	Rich was living in Astoria on 21st Street near Broadway. The building (no longer there) was an old wood building, a fire trap and rat infested. The neighborhood was primarily brick apartment buildings.  21st Street was commercial. People were of Greek ancestry with an older strain of Jews. There was a synagogue on Crescent Street. Rich did not like his apartment, but the neighborhood was fine. The theatre was still operating on Broadway (Broadway Theatre?). 

00:15:07	Rich then moved to a better place in Astoria - on 34th Street off Broadway. This was a Greek neighborhood. He ate at Uncle George’s, a Greek Tavern, (3319 Broadway) a family-style restaurant on the corner of 34th Street and Broadway. It was inexpensive and good food, with vegetarian options. Rich lived on the fourth floor of a four-story building with no elevator.  He lived there mostly by himself but for about three years with a partner. He hung out with other people in the building. (This refers to apartment on 21st Street.) There was not really a gay community there – Rich was involved with the gay community in Manhattan at the time.  

00:16:38	In July 2001, Rich moved to East Elmhurst. He bought a co-op. All his friends at the time seemed to be buying co-ops. Rich did not think he could afford it.  He decided to investigate buying and the ‘gods led me by the nose step by step’. The day he moved in, his monthly housing costs went up about $5.00.  

00:18:24	The neighborhood today is pretty much the same as it was 17 years ago when Rich moved in.  It is wonderfully, ethnically mixed. The buildings themselves are mixed.  When Rich was younger, there were ethnic sections in Queens but now there is a great deal of ethnic mixture within neighborhoods.  This neighborhood is thought of as a Latino neighborhood, but it is in fact more varied. There are a wide variety of Latinos (20-30 countries), Asians, older strain of Jews, Blacks – even within Rich’s building.

00:19:46	There is a major gay community just outside East Elmhurst (in Jackson Heights), but there are gays living in his apartment building.  Rich is totally out wherever he is. He may be nervous at times, but that doesn’t stop him. He expects to stay here.

00:20:32	Rich does not own a car – he rents a car once or twice a year. He gets around by walking, busses, and the subway. It is a bit of a walk to the subway station (Jackson Heights) but that is to his advantage – it is healthy to walk there.

00:21:10	Once Rich left the monastery, he lived briefly with his family in Deer Park, then lived in Manhattan and Flatbush. He was 24 years-old at this point (1970).  By the standard of that time, it was not so late to come out.  He came out to himself while in Manhattan, went into brief tail spin, but soon realized he did not fit the stereotypes.

00:22:14	Rich became involved in gay activism by running into a Gay Activist Alliance (GAA) demonstration (accidentally). He quickly started going to their meetings at the Church of the Holy Apostle’s (296 9th Ave, New York, NY 10001). On a trip home from Union City to Flatbush, he took the bus to Port Authority, walked across Sixth Ave. to the D train, through times Square. When in Times Square, there was a demonstration – jointly sponsored by GAA and the Gay Liberation Front.  They were protesting the ‘clean up’ of Times Square – anyone who looked gay was getting arrested (spring of 1970). He joined them.  The demonstration began as a picket along 42nd Street (between Times Square and 8th Avenue), then the group decided to walk down to the police precinct conducting the ‘clean up’ (in the 30’s 8th or 9th Avenue). They picketed there, and then marched down to the Village, at 6th Ave and Greenwich Street.

00:25:04	(Might be conflating more than one occasion.) The area off 8th Street between 6th Avenue and University was closed as a pedestrian mall until midnight. The group circled the Women’s House of Detention, then were partying on 8th Street. Midnight comes along, and it was time to open the street again. The police wanted the group to go and a mini-riot ensued.  There were provocateurs in the crowd who would throw things at the cops over the crowd and then the cops would beat up the people who looked the smallest. This solidified Rich’s connection with the community. He was scared but not able to leave. (These might be two separate events.)

00:26:18 	Rich then became much more involved with GAA. He   was working as a photography assistant at Stetch and Stetch – a catalog studio located at Broadway below Bleeker. The shop was visited by District 65 to unionize. Rich got involved in the unionization. He was a supporter, not a leader, but they thought he was a leader and he was fired. Before that they tried to control Rich. The wife of the owner called his mother and told her Rich was gay before he was out. His mother was angry at the owner but now Rich was free to be involved in the GAA. 

00:26:55	In the early 1970’s, Rich was an unrepentant hippie, wearing bell bottoms and smoking pot. At the time, there was a strong sense that we were changing the world. There were also Viet Nam demonstrations. Rich had a deferment because he was in the monastery. Rich then discussed his experience applying for Conscientious Objector Status when he left the monastery. He did not receive CO status, but the process stalled things.  Rich then discussed the pre-induction physicals. He met someone during this process who was ‘checking the box’, the box for homosexual tendencies. He checked the box. Rich had to see a ‘shrink’ then, but it was the first time Rich was ever happy about bigotry.

00:32:29	Rich could then get more involved in GAA. He was made a Committee Chair, by the first President, Jim Owles. Rich’s two mentors were Arthur Evans and Marty Robinson. Marty was all fire saying the best cure for guilt is anger.  Arthur Evans was a thinker and strategist. To be a voting member, you had to attend a certain number of meetings and go to committee meetings. Rich wound up going to an ad-hoc committee related to the Dick Cavett show. There was a guest on the show who had made insulting comments and the GAA did a ‘zap’. Marty was the head of the ad-hoc committee. Rich joined the committee and they met in Marty’s apartment. He gave Rich a job to do. This sucked Rich right into being a part of the organization. There was a lot of sexual activity in the organization, the glue that held the organization together and occasionally the bomb. (Documented in book, Dancing the Gay Lib Blues, by Arthur Bells and Arthur Evans.) There were some monogamous couples but that was not the ethics of the organization. 

00:35:55	Rich later became Orientation Committee Chair. To be a member, you had to attend an orientation which was primarily instruction in Robert Rules of Order. This was Arthur Evans’ initiative. The organization was democratic, and the executive committees only had power in an emergency.  Everything was voted on the floor at meetings. At this point, there were about 400 people at the meetings. The headquarters were at the old Firehouse at 99 Wooster Street until it burned down
	
00:37:36	Rich became President of GAA in 1971 and served for one year. At the time, it was the premier gay political organization in NYC.  They organized one demonstration in Queens when they were pushing for a gay rights bill at the City Council. Their strategy was to ‘zap’ discriminators. They zapped a Queens apartment building that had discriminatory renting policies.  

00:39:08	The unofficial rules with the police were that you would have a sit in but target a more liberal place. They didn’t want the publicity of arrests, so the police didn’t arrest people right away. Then at 5:00 PM, the police give three warnings to leave. The third time, everyone would leave except those willing to get arrested.  It was a very effective way to get publicity. The key is to get people to come out of the closet.  Rich believes that in terms of race, the courts are ahead of the populace. The opposite is true in gay rights because gays are in every family, and not segregated. Segregation is the key to keeping the status quo. 

00:42:42	The trick was to come out and get PR for demonstration. At that point, in the Village, walking hand-in-hand and kissing were political acts.

00:42:52 	Rich did not run again for GAA president.  Bruce Voeller, who wanted to run, promised that GAA would remain a democratic organization.  But his real goal was to form a national board-based organization. This became the National Gay Task Force and later National Gay and Lesbian Task force. Rich was invited to be on the board but had no interest in it.

00:43:56	Rich then became briefly the president of the Mattachine Society. It was in its last days.  They did peer counseling, raided dumpsters of grocery stores and mode pots of soup for people who needed it. Rich was friends with Don Goodwin, the previous Mattachine president.

00:44:50	The year Rich was GAA president (1971), they decided to walk to Albany. (About 10 people.) It started in Times Square, took a week, and culminated in statewide collaborative demonstration on the Capitol Steps. The primary motivation was gay liberation but there were secondary motivations as well. For Rich, it was proving he could lead. Sidney Abbott, Ruth Smith, Don Goodwin all helped.  

00:47:26	The first night, they were scheduled to sleep in a Quaker Meeting House in Scarsdale.  The Quakers and the Unitarians were early supporters. It was pouring rain, and they were outside Mercy College in Westchester waiting to be ferried to the House. They asked permission to get out of the rain, and they said no.  They were welcomed by Graymoor Friars. When they were near Poughkeepsie, some Jesus freaks had a barn, but said they would have to pray on it. Then a Methodist Church said they could stay if they participated in panel. The group then stayed in a farm house owned by Kate Millett. They stayed at Pete Seeger’s house in Brewster NY.  Outside of Rhinebeck, someone shot at two of the marchers. The state police told them they were lucky it wasn’t the state police shooting, they would not have missed.

00:52:10	The group arrived a day early and stayed overnight in Troy. There were two marches on Albany. There are FBI files on this. Troy Perry was there and spoke. The FBI files said he was the head of a vast national organization. This was very far from the truth. GAA wanted to be grassroots, they did not want to be a top down national organization. 

00:53:39	Before Rich was president of GAA, he was the head of the National Gay Movement Committee and they traveled through the mid-west for purposes of organizing.  Three people went, Rich, Hernan Figueroa (Rich’s partner at the time), and Jack Hoppen (from Queens). They would meet people at bars and try to pick someone up who could get something started politically. They did that in Pittsburgh. In Cleveland, they worked with Jack Campbell, who later went to Florida and fought Anita Bryant.  The group succeeded in being a catalyst for the Gay Activist Alliance in Cleveland. They also worked in Columbus that already had the Society for Individual Rights. They had a picket line at the state Capitol.  The idea was to stir things up and an organization was formed from that.

00:57:31	Typically, an organization starts up, falls apart a year later and a more enduring one starts up. This was the same pattern in NYC.  All groups were afflicted with internalized homophobia at the time.  The Gay Liberation Front (GLF), for example, was so concerned with being part of the left, they lost themselves. At a Black Panther Party convention in Philadelphia, the GLF was treated badly.  The women walked out but the men did not. The left was often as bad as the right. 

00:59:13	The founders of GAA came out of GLF. They insisted on structure. They would focus on one issue – gay or lesbian - and nothing else. This is not a good idea for our time but was necessary at that time. Many of the members would do other things (Viet Nam protests), but not as GAA members. 

01:00:20	Rich was not involved in gay organizing in Queens at this time (1971), he was living in Brooklyn. The Queens organizations that started then were trying to pull in the Queens politicians. QGLU (Queens Gay and Lesbian Union) was an early organization. Rich would know those people, because they were also part of GAA. The Lesbian and Gay Democratic Club of Queens started later as the immediate reaction to the killing of Julio Rivera.  Danny Dromm did that.

01:01:46	Rich was also briefly involved with the Gay Alliance in Brooklyn, a social group and the first attempt to organize the Metropolitan Community Church (MCC) in NY. Hernan Figueroa was Rich’s lover and was an artist. He is Puerto Rican.  His teacher called him by the English pronunciation of his name and then he changed it back. Things were not feeling right for Rich any more.  He was drinking and decided to leave NYC.  

01:04:00	Rich then went to Alfred NY. He had been there a year before with Ruth Simpson, Daughters of Bilitis, to give a talk. It was the first municipality with gay rights law It is a college town.  Rich fell in love and moved to Bradford PA where his lover lived. He worked in a sheltered workshop, through a CETA grant, and was there four or five years.  Rich talked about various experiences in Bradford. 

01:11:14	Rich came back to NY – his lover followed him.  They lived in an apartment in Spanish Harlem (99th Street off of Lexington) and then moved together to Astoria (21st Street).  Rich was not involved in gay political activities in Queens. He was briefly involved with the Gay Atheist’s League which was a social group but did not work out for him. Rich went back to his love of mythology that had started in high school. He found the Wiccan Circle through an ad in a local Queens paper (Queens Tribune) and he joined. This was Kathexis Coven in Woodside. He was with this Coven for five years and then ‘graduated’ to start his own. With a partner, Rich formed Polyhymnia Coven that still exists today. The head of Kathexis Conven, Michael Thorn, was also the co-founder of the Gay Nurses Association. 

01:15:42	Rich knew Danny Dromm before he became a Council Member, through attendance in many meetings. Rich was in the first Queens Pride Parade and has attended each one. He does not attend the Manhattan parade. He will be there next Sunday (June 3, 2018) and will march with the Queens Center for Gay Seniors.  He goes to the Center twice a week. 

01:17:14	In 1985 (Koch administration), Rich was working on an LGBT exhibit at City Hall with Allen Ellenzwieg, Richard Haymes, and the Mayor’s representative Lee Hudson. In 1989, the LGBT Community Center in Manhattan wanted to create a museum and archives. Richard Burns, then the Executive Director, asked around about who should put this together. Vito Russo, knowing about Rich’s work on the Koch exhibit, asked Rich to do the archives. The initial committee for this was Nancy, AKA Buddy, Seaton, Mark Johnson, Florence Pincus, and Richard Burns. History was always important to Rich. But he realized that although he could learn how to create an archive through reading about it, it would be wiser to have the piece of paper. He decided to go back to school. Rich was working nights at the Bettmann Archive at the time (a photo archive).  He went to the NYU Archival Program, receiving a History Masters with a certificate in archival management. That changed his paying career. He served for 17 years as the Associate Archivist for the New York Philharmonic. 

01:21:19	Rich then founded the archives at the LGBT Community Center in Manhattan. He left in November 2017 after 27 years. There is now a paid full-time staff, Caitlyn McCarthy. (This was Richard’s goal.)

01:21:57	Rich is now retired from the Philharmonic and the LGBT Community Center archives. He felt he had to do something. He had been a member of the Jackson Heights Arts Club. His initial medium was photography and he was a photo journalist – with photos in the gay papers. One photo taken in 1971 is at the Leslie-Lohman Museum now. About 20 years ago, he migrated to stained glass, then got more into drawing.  Rich wanted drawing lessons to help with his stained glass, but now drawing has become a thing in itself.  In November 2017, he became president of the organization. It is a 68-year-old organization, non-profit, no hired staff (pay class instructors) and in bad shape financially.  The studio is the in basement of a church (St. Mark's Church, 33-50 82nd Street, Jackson Heights, NY 11369.) There are children and adult classes, an annual member show, and ‘on the fence’ an outdoor art show at PS 69 (77-02 37th Avenue, Queens, NY 11372). Artists do demonstrations. Danny Dromm has been very supportive with Council money.  

01:25:18	Rich’s father was a studio photographer when he lived in Milwaukee.  His favorite model was his wife. When the family moved back to Queens, he became a book keeper/accountant for the Duvenoy Bakery Company in Manhattan. When they folded, he had another job, and did private tax work.  His real love was photography. There was always a dark room in the house, starting in Queens. Rich then described the magic of a dark room.

01:27:28	Rich’s first camera was a Kodak box camera.  When he was involved in GAA, before being president, he was the principle photographer of all the demonstrations. His photos were published in Gay newspapers in NYC and in the Los Angeles Advocate. 

01:28:22	Rich’s father continued to be an amateur photographer, taking pictures of the family and other things that interested him.  When he died, he left the photos to Rich as the archivist. Rich donated them to the Queens Library Long Island Collection.  These are pictures of Queens life, including wedding pictures at Gate of Heaven Church and major snow storms.

01:29:21	This is a very difficult time with ‘Mr. 45’. There is an enabling of people to come out of their hate-filled closet and attack people. Queens is relatively ok, but not totally – there have been attacks on trans people. Rich noticed that hanging out with the non-activist gay community at the Queens Center for Gay Seniors, there is prejudice within the gay community with regard to trans people and to a lesser extent, racial identities (although that is not particularly noticeable because of large immigrant community.) There a great need to move that forward by coming out and objecting to racist, sexist jokes, etc. Rich has always been out and spoken out.

01:33:03	Rich continues to speak out as a gay rights activist.  Even in the Jackson Heights Art Club, the gay members, while not hiding, have a certain delicacy by not saying anything. These are generally older people.  Rich hopes we will survive this, but a lot of people will be hurt in the process. He hopes that we come out ahead as these bigots were not created by Trump but have now been brought to light.  Rich had no idea of the extent of this hatred. He is much more aware of that reality.  That is a good thing.  Rich is an optimist.  Progress and justice are not a straight line, you go back in forth but in toto, hopefully, we move slightly forward.  

01:37:52	Rich thinks NYC has quite good funding senior services - within walking distance there are lots of places for a good senior lunch.  There are still difficulties when someone is gets ill.  This is compounded for an LGBT person, often isolated from their family.  If Rich gets to that point, his hope is with his chosen family. People say the people at the gay senior centers are the most lively, aware and active!  

01:40:47	Rich thinks Queens is a great place.  Even if he could afford it, he would not move to Manhattan.  He likes the ethnic mixture within one neighborhood and the space.  Queens has also produced great people i.e. Eddie Buczynski, a gay man, grew up in Ozone Park (as did Jack Kerouac) and was the founder of the Minoan tradition of Wicca.  In the 1970’s, WICCA was prejudiced, and Eddie found this own tradition (documented in Bull of Heaven by Michael Lloyd). 

01:43:10	Rich still thinks in terms of parish.  Queens library has been very important to Rich, since he was a kid. When living on 133rd Avenue, Rich and his sister walked to the library at 101st Ave. It was a grand building - the storefront across was the children’s library.  Rich’s family always encouraged reading and music.

01:41:05	Rich’s mother had a back ground in music.  His mother and father were involved in a Gilbert and Sullivan troupe in Queens. His mother sang, and his father was the business manager and photographer. Rich’s mother believed that there had to be books and music in the house. At dinner, if there was dispute about a fact, the family looked at the encyclopedia. In the basement, there were at least 1,000 books that the family had accumulated. Rich was involved in scouting in Queens. He went to Scout Camp with the Queens Council (land on Long Island).  Queens was a good place to be raised.  He is more than happy to be back home. Rich is still a member of the Queens Library. He is also a member of the New York Public Library, but prefers the Queens library, as they are more likely to have the books he wants to read.  

01:47:39	End of the Queens Memory interview with Richard Wandel at 32-23 88th Street, East Elmhurst, New York on May 29, 2018 at 1:50 PM.


